ALL RIGHT, WELCOME
TO THE TUESDAY OCTOBER ONE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR REGULAR
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED YEAH ALL GOOD.
GIVE US A SECOND.
YEAH
.
>> PLEASE HOLD FOR SOME
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES SO
INTERESTING.
IT'S A FAMILY THAT MIKE PASSED
SIMPLY NAMED PEOPLE PAY EXTRA
FOR THAT GO FEATURE SO
IT'S A
GOOD THING WHEN YOU STARTED
YEAH I GET THE TECHNICAL YES
EXACTLY.
YEAH I'LL KEEP TEXTING JUST A
BIT MAYBE CAN WE MEET THE
SPEAKERS POSSIBLY TACITUS
ALL
RIGHT HERE.
YEAH BUT I THINK WE'RE GOOD OK
ALL RIGHT.
>> BRINGING BACK TO UH FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTING MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MISS KELLY, WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
CERTAINLY.
CLEARLY I'M HERE MR. EVRON I'M
SORRY I CHAIR YOUR WIFE HERE.
SECRETARY HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
NOTING THAT, UH, COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS'S ABSENT WITH ADVANCE
NOTICE COUNCIL NO DISH
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE NOTING
THAT COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
IS ABSENT WITH ADVANCE NOTICE.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE AND
COMMISSIONER NORTON HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER ADAMS ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I AM OPPOSED SEEING NONE
MOTION THEY HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE
SEPTEMBER FOURTH TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MOVE BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
SECONDED BY MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THEY'RE NOT AVAILABLE.
I WASN'T ABLE I WASN'T ABLE TO
FIND THEM ONLINE.
>> I LET ME INVESTIGATE.
>> OK COOL.
>> THAT IS A DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES.
CAN WE TABLE THE APPROVAL
OF THE MEETING MINUTES PLEASE.
>> DO I HAVE A MOTION TO A
TABLE COMMISSIONER LS SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER NORTON ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY I.
I ONLY OPPOSED SEEING ONE
MOTION THE MINUTES OF THE
PREVIOUS MEETING ARE TABLED
NEXT STOP OR REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
>> WE START ACTUALLY WITH THE
MANAGER REPORT AND SO MISKELLY
SURE I AM EXCITED TO REPORT
THAT ANOTHER PLANNER WILL BE
JOINING OUR DEPARTMENT MICHELLE
BENNET WHO COMES TO US
INTERNALLY FROM THE CITY
MICHELLE CURRENTLY WORKS AND
PUBLIC OUTREACH AND
COMMUNICATION.
>> YOU MIGHT HAVE SEEN HER
ENGAGING THE PUBLIC ON
TRANSPORTATION PLANS OR
MULTIMODAL PROJECTS THAT HAPPEN
THROUGHOUT ANN ARBOR AND THIS
POSITION WAS OPENED UP TO US AT
A HIGHER LEVEL.
IT'S GOING TO BE ASSISTING THIS
ROLE WILL BE ASSISTING WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WORK
INITIALLY THROUGH TO ADOPTION
BUT ALSO IMPLEMENTATION AND
COMMUNICATION WITH THE PUBLIC.
SO WE HOPE TO HAVE SOME MORE
ENERGY AND ASSISTANCE TO
MANAGER LEONARD IN THAT PROCESS
.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO HAVING MISS
BENNETT IN FRONT OF THE
COMMISSION IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
I WOULD ASK CONTINUING ON THE
THEME OF UPDATES THROUGH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MANAGER
LEONARD ONCE ALL OF YOU TO
PLEASE SAVE THE DATE FOR
OCTOBER TWENTY THIRD THERE WILL
BE A WORKSHOP AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY.
MORE DETAILS WILL BE SHARED
SOON BUT THIS IS ON THE PROJECT
WEBSITE FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THERE WILL BE
PRESENTATIONS DURING THE DAY
AND EVENING WITH OPEN OFFICE
HOURS IN BETWEEN SO SORT OF AN
ALL DAY EVENT AND I WOULD LIKE
TO POINT OUT THAT BOTH THE
STEERING COMMITTEE AND THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
MET RECENTLY FOR THE PLAN.
THE STEERING COMMITTEE MET ON
SEPTEMBER 18TH.
THOSE SLIDES ARE AVAILABLE
AGAIN ON THE PROJECT WEBSITE
AND THE RECORDING OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
ALSO AVAILABLE PREVIEW FOR NEXT
WEEK'S WORKING SESSION.
WE DID HAVE A PREPARED THAT WAS
REQUESTED TO BE TABLED BUT WE
DECIDED TO KEEP THE MEETING FOR
THE OTHER ITEM THAT WAS ON YOUR
AGENDA AND THAT WILL BE
MODIFYING REQUIREMENTS AND
RESTRICTIONS RELATED TO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
THIS COMES TO AFTER BEING
INITIATED AS A REQUEST AFTER
REPEATED PETITIONS OF THIS KIND
CAME BEFORE THE ZIEBA.
SO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MADE A RECOMMENDATION AND
YOU'LL HAVE SOME MORE
INFORMATION FROM OUR ZONING
COORDINATOR JOHN BARRETT ON
THAT TOPIC.
PLEASE LET US KNOW IF YOU HAVE
QUESTIONS ONCE YOU SEE THE
AGENDA AND I WOULD LIKE TO JUST
REPORT BACK SOME BEHIND THE
SCENES CONVERSATIONS, DISCUSS
DURING RECENT COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS BUSINESS
THAT'S RELATED TO THE MICHIGAN
STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY AND DOWNTOWN LOADING
DYNAMICS.
I'M WORKING TO SCHEDULE FOR
YOUR NOVEMBER AND YOUR DECEMBER
MEETINGS RESPECTIVELY.
A PRESENTATION FROM JENNIFER
HALL AND CONSULTANTS RELATED TO
MIESHA AND WE HOPE TO HAVE A
ROBUST DISCUSSION THAT WILL
LIKE IT MAY BE THE ONLY THING
ON THAT AGENDA SO HOPEFULLY WE
CAN ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU
HAVE RELATED TO THAT AND THEN
STAFF WOULD BE COMING IN.
>> WE'RE WE'RE HOPING TO
PENNSYLVANIAN IN DECEMBER TO
TALK ABOUT THEIR CIRCULATION
STUDY HOW THEY APPROACH
REVIEWING LOADING ZONES, HOW
THAT PLAYS OUT IN SITE PLAN
PROCESS AND ALSO TO JUST GET
OUT ALL OF THE THE QUESTIONS
AND CURIOSITIES THE COMMISSION
HAS ABOUT THAT.
>> THERE WAS A COMMUNICATION
ALSO THIS SORT OF CAME OUT
OF COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
BUT SOME BUSINESS LAST YEAR AND
AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS YEAR
RELATED TO THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM THERE WAS
INTEREST IN UNDERSTANDING MORE
ABOUT THAT, GETTING MORE
COMMUNICATION AS IT PROGRESSED.
SO YOU'LL SEE THAT IN YOUR
PACKET.
WE DID ASK FOR ADVANCED
QUESTIONS BUT IF YOU DO HAVE
ANYTHING WE WE DON'T HAVE KEILA
COMMENT ON HAND.
BUT JULIA SHAC WHO'S WITH US
ASSOCIATE PLANNER HAS BEEN
ATTENDING ALL OF THOSE VIP
MEETINGS AND CAN WE'LL DO OUR
BEST IF YOU HAVE LAST MINUTE
QUESTIONS THERE AND THEN JUST A
REMINDER THAT YOU WILL NEED SIX
VOTES TODAY TO AFFIRMATIVE
LIPASE ANY ACTION.
AND LASTLY, THE MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION OF PLANNING
CONFERENCE WAS LAST WEEK MANY
OF THE PEOPLE AT THE TABLE
INCLUDING STAFF PARTICIPATED.
SO COMMISSIONERS EVANS AND LEE
RECEIVED YOUR SUPPORT TO ATTEND
OUT OF OUR DEPARTMENT BUDGET
FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AND
ALSO INDEPENDENTLY
COMMISSIONERS MILLS AND NORTON
PARTICIPATED FROM STAFF I
ATTENDED MARIJANA MALENE
CORCORAN, MATT KAWALSKY AND
JULIA SHAC PARTICIPATED SO I
WOULD JUST OFFER TO THE
COMMISSIONERS TO SHARE ANY
REFLECTIONS THAT YOU WOULD LIKE
ABOUT THE CONFERENCE PERHAPS?
>> YEAH, SURE THING.
I DO PLAN TO CIRCULATE ACTUALLY
MY MEETING NOTES AND SEMINAR
NOTES THE REST OF THE
COMMISSION A FEW THINGS THAT I
JUST WANTED TO MENTION.
THIS IS AN INTERESTING INSIGHT
WHICH IS THAT HOUSEHOLD
COMPOSITION IMPACTS DRASTICALLY
HOW MANY HOUSING UNITS THAT YOU
NEED SO YOU COULD HAVE THE
EXACT SAME NUMBER OF PEOPLE BUT
IF YOUR HOUSING COMPOSITION
GOES DOWN FROM THREE POINT
EIGHT PEOPLE IN THE HOUSEHOLD
TO TWO AND A HALF, WHICH IS
WHAT'S BEEN OCCURRING IS THAT
HOUSEHOLD COMPOSITION HAS BEEN
DECLINING AND SO IT'S IT'S A
SMALLER HOUSEHOLD.
PEOPLE AREN'T HAVING AS MANY
KIDS WILL HAVE THE EXACT SAME
NUMBER OF POPULATION BUT YOU
JUST NEED THAT MANY MORE UNITS
JUST DUE TO THE WAY THAT THE
HOUSEHOLDS ARE COMPOSED.
SO LEGISLATION DID PASS IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE ALLOWING
HOUSING AS TIFF FOR WORKFORCE
AND AFFORDABLE I'M SORRY
ATTAINABLE HOUSING AT 120
PERCENT AM I AND SO WE HEARD
ABOUT HOW AM I BEING AN AREA
MEDIAN INCOME.
WE DID HEAR ABOUT EXAMPLES
OF HOW THESE PROJECTS ARE STILL
ARE STARTING TO COME IN TO
USING THE HOUSING TIFE THAT
HELPS TO COVER THE GAP BETWEEN
MARKET RATE AND 120 PERCENT AND
THEN WE ALSO HEARD ABOUT
MANUFACTURED HOUSING AS A FORM
OF MORE COST EFFECTIVE
SOLUTIONS RATHER THAN
TRADITIONAL SINGLE FAMILY STICK
BUILT JUST FROM A STANDPOINT
OF TIMING AS WELL AS OVERALL
COSTS.
SO THOSE ARE SOME THE KIND
OF MAIN SALIENT THINGS THAT I
TOOK AWAY FROM IT.
BUT WE'RE NOT ALONE AND HOUSING
ISSUES THROUGHOUT AND SO A LOT
OF FOLKS SUCH AS GRAND RAPIDS,
KENT COUNTY ARE ALSO GRAPPLING
WITH SIMILAR ISSUES OF DENSITY
RELATIVE TO POPULATION AND
HOUSEHOLD COMPOSITION.
>> SO I'D BE HAPPY TO TURN OVER
THE FLOOR TO ANYBODY ELSE THAT
ATTENDED.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
AND IF NOT WE WILL ACTUALLY
MOVE ON TO COUNCIL MEMBER
TISH'S REPORTS.
>> IF YOU ARE I LEFT MY LAPTOP.
OH, I DON'T AND MY LAPTOP HAS
MY BRAIN.
OH.
SO I DO NOT REMEMBER WHAT
HAPPENED AT COUNCIL.
>> OH ALL GOOD.
>> YEAH THANK YOU.
I MIGHT BE ABLE TO HELP OUT BUT
SINCE THE LAST TIME THIS
COMMISSION CONVENED ON
SEPTEMBER 4TH THERE WAS A
SECOND READING OF THE TWEEK TO
THE REGULAR USE AREA TO MAKE A
CORRECTION TO LIKE CLERICAL
ERROR.
SO THAT HAS BEEN CORRECTED AND
THERE WERE TWO REASONINGS
OF RECENT ANNEXATIONS IN OH
YEAH FOR FOUR FOR HUNTINGTON
AND THE ADDRESS ON LGBT RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
DO ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER
OFFICERS OR COMMITTEE LIAISON
HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD?
OK WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET SO
THIS IS WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON AN ISSUE
THAT'S NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING.
WELL, FIRST HEAR FROM
INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE PRESENT
AND THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
PLEA TO SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON THE PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IN ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FOUR TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE DAYS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE AND YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA, MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES AND FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
MR. GUIBERT
THANK YOU CHAIR WE
CAN GARBA TWENTY HOMECOURT.
NICE TO BE HERE WITH YOU
TONIGHT.
I WANT TO SPEAK TO THE ACTUALLY
CHARLIE JUST BROUGHT UP ABOUT
TIFE FOR HOUSING.
THIS IS ACTUALLY A RECENT
CHANGE TO THE STATE BROWNFIELD
ACT COMING SOON TO YOUR TABLE
AS YOU CONTAMINATED SITES HAVE
LONG BEEN ELIGIBLE FOR TAX
INCREMENT FINANCING IF UNDER
THE STATE BROWNFIELD TAX
SUBJECT TO LOCAL APPROVAL FOR
INFILL PROJECTS THAT OTHERWISE
WOULDN'T BE FEASIBLE AND TO
LEVEL THE PLAYING FIELD BETWEEN
BROWNFIELD SITES AND GREENFIELD
SITES.
YOU'VE SEEN THIS SO AS CHARLIE
SAID LAST YEAR MISTED MADE
CHANGES TO THE BROWNFIELD ACT
FOR THE FIRST TIME MAKE HOUSING
ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDING JUST FOR
BEING HOUSING.
YOU DON'T NEED CONTAMINATION
ANYMORE TO BE A BROWNFIELD ANY
PROJECT THE BUILDER REHABS AT
LEAST ONE HOUSING UNIT
QUALIFIES FOR THESE PROJECTS.
TAXES CAN BE FORGIVEN FOR A
NUMBER OF ACTIVITIES INCLUDING
PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
EXAMPLE PARKING LOTS AS WELL AS
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS,
DEMOLITION, RENOVATION SITE
PREPARATION AND LOTS
OF DEVELOPERS NOW JUMPING ON
THIS IS A WAY TO SUBSIDIZE
THEIR PROJECTS.
THESE ARE IN THE PIPELINE AND
BECAUSE THE CITY GOT RID OF ITS
BROWNFIELD PLAN REVIEW
COMMITTEE LAST YEAR, YOU WILL
BE THE FIRST STOP AT LEAST
PUBLICLY FOR THESE PLANS.
SO YOU'LL HAVE TO DEAL WITH
THIS.
>> I AM NEW TO THIS SUBJECT BUT
I HAVE AN OPINION ALREADY
UNSURPRISINGLY, WE NEED MORE
HOUSING, ESPECIALLY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND TO THE EXTENT THIS
NEW RULE FACILITATES THAT IT'S
GREAT.
BUT THESE ARE TAXPAYER DOLLARS
GOING TO PRIVATE DEVELOPERS.
YES, WE'RE JUST CAPPING THE TAX
RATE FOR THE PROPERTIES BUT
THIS IS A TAXPAYER SUBSIDY.
THESE TAX DOLLARS COULD BE USED
TO BUILD OR RENOVATE PUBLIC
HOUSING WITH STATE MATCHING
FUNDS AND THESE SO-CALLED
BROWNFIELD HOUSING SUBSIDY
SHOULD BE GRANTED JUDICIOUSLY
AND SELECTIVELY.
LET'S NOT JUST ENRICH
DEVELOPERS WHO ALREADY INTENDED
TO BUILD MARKET RATE HOUSING
AND IN FACT 120 PERCENT OF AREA
MEDIAN INCOME BASICALLY MARKET
RATE I MEAN IN CERTAINLY IN
THIS AREA THAT'S NOT CHEAP OR
DEVELOPERS WHO WANT TO MAKE A
BAD PROJECT VIABLE SETTING
AFFORDABILITY STANDARD FOR A
MINIMUM NUMBER OF UNITS.
>> BIZARRELY AS IT STANDS YOU
COULD BUILD A NEW BRIARWOOD
MALL AND PUT IN ONE CONDO AND
NOW IT'S A BROWNFIELD.
THE ELIGIBILITY ELIGIBILITY
RULES ARE INCREDIBLY BROAD.
SO YOU HAVE AN INCREDIBLE
AMOUNT OF DISCRETION TO WHAT
EXTENT YOU WILL USE IT OR HAVE
TO.
I DON'T KNOW.
IT'S I GUESS IT'S UP TO YOU BUT
I URGE YOU TO WEIGH IN WHEN
THESE COME TO THE TABLE AND
GIVE GUIDANCE TO COUNSEL ON
THIS TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC
INTEREST.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER IS OR ANYONE ELSE
PRESENT THAT LIKE TO SPEAK TO
THE COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
IS THERE ANYONE REMOTE THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
THERE ARE NO REMOTE ATTENDEES
THIS TIME.
OK, THANK YOU.
WITH THAT I'M GOING TO CLOSE
THIS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
WE'RE GOING TO GO ON TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING SO I WILL TURN
THAT OVER TO STAFF NEXT KELLY,
AT THIS TIME THERE ARE NO
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16TH AND THE
PLANNING MANAGER INTENDS
CANCELATION OF THAT MEETING.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THERE'S NO UNFINISHED
UNFINISHED BUSINESS OH SORRY.
>> SMALL LITTLE CORRECTION,
BOB.
>> YEAH, IF I COULD OH YES.
YEAH, PLEASE GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER WHICH DEPUTY
MANAGER KELLY YOU SAID THAT WE
REQUIRED SIX AFFIRMATIVE VOTES
BUT COUNCIL TOOK UP OUR BYLAWS
CHANGE AND REDUCE THAT TO FIVE.
THE CLERK PUBLISHED IT ON
THE
NINETEENTH AND IT TAKES EFFECT
IN TEN DAYS.
>> SO TWO PARTS OF THAT THE
FIRST PART WAS AMENDING SECTION
EIGHT OF CODE BUT THE SECOND
PIECE IS FORWARDING THE UPDATED
BYLAWS FOR APPROVAL IN THAT
SECOND PIECE HAS NOT YET
HAPPENED.
>> WE BELIEVE THAT WILL BE
WE'RE AIMING FOR A NOVEMBER
MEETING FOR THAT.
>> SO I'VE BEEN MISSING FORMED
BY MANAGER LENAR AND THERE WAS
A MASSIVE LAPSE OF MEMORY.
>> I'M NOT SAYING THAT'S NOT
POSSIBLE BUT MY UNDERSTANDING
IS TWO PARTER PART TWO DIDN'T
HAPPEN.
>> OK, WELL I I CAN'T CONTEST
WHAT MR. LEONARD HAS SAID TO
YOU BUT OUR BYLAWS HAVE BEEN
CHANGED.
THEY HAVE BEEN PUBLISHED AND
ACCORDING TO THE CHARTER OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AFTER TEN
DAYS THEY TAKE EFFECT.
OK, IF YOU SEND THAT TO ME I'LL
REVIEW IT AND IF WE'RE MISTAKEN
THEN I WAS TRACKING THIS NOT AS
CLOSELY AS MR. LEONARD BUT I
WOULD BE HAPPY TO NOT GO
THROUGH A STEP THAT'S ALREADY
BEEN TAKEN.
>> I WAS UNDER THE IMPRESSION
THAT PERHAPS IT WAS INCLUDED AS
AN ATTACHMENT TO DESCRIBE THE
NEED FOR THAT CHANGE.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE THERE'S
SCENARIOS UNDER WHICH IT MIGHT
HAVE GONE TO CITY COUNCIL
WITHOUT ACTUALLY BEING AN
APPROVED FOR APPROVAL PER SAY
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO SECTION NINE A. OF THE
AGENDA WHICH IS REGULAR
BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE A
PETITION NINE BRIARWOOD CIRCLE
SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION ACTION.
THIS IS A REQUEST TO REVISE A
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SITE PLAN
TWO THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO
FIVE FOUR THE LARGE FORMAT
RETAILER A REDUCTION
OF BUILDING SIZE FROM ONE ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT TO
LEVEL BUILDING TO A 60000
SQUARE FOOT ONE LEVEL BUILDING
WITH AN ADJACENT FIFTEEN
THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED EIGHTY
SQUARE FOOT SMALL RETAIL
BUILDING.
NO OTHER CHANGES TO THE SITE
ARE PROPOSED AND THE PETITIONER
IS REQUESTING POSTPONEMENT TO
WORK ON ADDITIONAL REVISIONS TO
THE PLAN STAFF RECOMMENDATION
IS TABLED TO A DATE TO BE
DETERMINED.
WE WILL HAVE A QUICK STAFF
PRESENTATION AS WELL AS WE WILL
HOLD PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
MATTER WITH THAT I WILL TURN IT
OVER TO PLANER DUILIO.
THANK YOU.
I'M REPRESENTING PLANNER MATT
KAWALSKY THIS EVENING.
>> IT'S A BIT OF A TECHNICAL
WONKINESS BUT WE ARE
RECOMMENDING THAT THE PROJECT
BE TABLED.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TABLING
AND POSTPONING POSTPONING MEANS
IT IS JUST SIMPLY POSTPONED AND
USUALLY IT'S TO A DATE CERTAIN
AND THE THE NORM IS THAT LESS
THAN SIX MONTHS AWAY THIS
PARTICULAR APPLICANT HAS NO
CLEAR PLAN YET FOR WHEN THIS
MIGHT RETURN AND REQUESTED IT
BE POSTPONED INDEFINITELY.
THAT'S TECHNICALLY NOT DONE.
WHAT WE'RE DOING IS WE ARE
RECOMMENDING THAT YOU TABLE IT
WHICH MEANS THAT IT IS TABLED
AND IN ORDER TO BRING IT BACK
WE'LL HAVE TO ADVERTISE FOR A
NEW PUBLIC HEARING AND SO
FORTH.
BUT THAT IS THE WAY IT GOES
WHEN YOU WHEN YOU ARE UNCLEAR
ABOUT WHAT YOU MIGHT WANT TO DO
IN THE FUTURE.
SO ON BEHALF OF THE APPLICANT,
WE ARE RECOMMENDING THAT IT BE
TABLED.
>> THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
PUBLIC AND INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK
UP THE THREE MINUTES ON THIS
ITEM WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE AND ZOOM IN FOR FOREIGN
ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS THE LAST THREE
MINUTES THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME IF AVAILABLE AND YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
AND PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A
QUIET AREA SO WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS AND IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
REGARDING
PROCEDURAL QUESTION WHEN THIS
COMES BACK, WILL THERE BE A
CONTINUATION OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING OR IS THIS MY ONLY
CHANCE?
>> I BELIEVE YES, THERE WILL BE
A PUBLIC HEARING.
WE WILL HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE
ENTIRE PROCESS AGAIN.
OK, THANKS.
I GET TWO CHANCES TO HEARING
YOU SO BUT I WON'T TO I JUST
HAVE KIND OF A QUESTION.
THIS IS A GOOD PROJECT.
THE HOUSING PORTION OF IT IS
GOING TO BE ALL ELECTRIC BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT THE
RETAILER AND COMMERCIAL
ELEMENTS OF THIS WERE GOING TO
BE GAS HEATED AND IT LOOKS FROM
WHAT I CAN TELL FROM THE STAFF
REPORT THIS IS GOING TO BE A
DOWNSIZING OF THE RETAIL
PORTION.
I'M HOPING THAT THE DEVELOPER
IF HE OR SHE IS LISTENING WELL
CONSIDER ELECTRIFICATION
OF THAT ELEMENT OF THE PROJECT
AS WELL.
SO THAT'S IT'S REALLY MORE
DIRECTED AT THE DEVELOPER THAN
TO YOU.
BUT THAT'S MY CONCERN ABOUT
THIS PROJECT.
AGAIN, I LIKE THE PROJECT.
IT'S A GREAT USE OF THIS ON
THIS LAND.
I'M KNOW IN SOME WAYS IT'S
UNFORTUNATE IT'S BEING
DOWNSIZED BUT I WOULD LIKE IT
TO BE MORE CLIMATE FRIENDLY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER, DO WE HAVE ANYONE
ELSE PRESENT I'D LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS TIME SEEING NONE.
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS
?
>> THERE ARE STILL NO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE ARE MOVING I'M
GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
TO TABLE THIS ITEM.
DO WE HAVE MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
ADAM SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS' DISCUSSION?
BUT PROCEDURALLY WE'RE TALKING
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
POSTPONEMENT AND TABLING ANY
ISSUES SEEING NONE.
>> DO YOU NEED A ROLL CALL OR
WOULD YOU LIKE TO VOICE FOR
THIS PROCEDURALLY REQUIRED HERE
A VOICE VOTE WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS.
>> OK, VOICE VOTE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY AY AY ALL THOSE
OPPOSED SEEING NONE MOTION
PASSES.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SECTION NINE B REGULAR BUSINESS
THIS IS AN AMENDMENT TO THE
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UDC SECTION
FIVE POINT ONE FIVE PERMITTED
USE TABLES AT THIS POINT IN
TIME I WILL BE RECUSING MYSELF
FROM THIS PARTICULAR ITEM AS MY
EMPLOYER IS THE ONE THAT IS
MAKING THIS PETITION AND SO
WITH THAT I WILL HAND IT OVER
TO MR. AH RIGHT SO I WILL
INTRODUCE THE PETITION.
IT'S AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UDC SECTION FIVE
FIFTEEN PERMITTED USE TABLES IN
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS A PROPOSAL
EXCUSE ME A PROPOSED AMENDMENT
TO SECTION FIVE POINT FIFTEEN
PERMITTED USE TABLES AND
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS TO ALLOW
CHILD CARE CENTER AND PRIVATE
SCHOOL USES AND MORE ZONING
DISTRICTS STAFF RECOMMENDATION
IS APPROVAL.
WE HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION BY
ASSOCIATE PLANNER SHAK BEFORE I
PROCEED WITH MY PRESENTATION.
I BELIEVE THE THIS WAS A
PETITION OR REQUESTED TEXT
AMENDMENT AND I BELIEVE SOMEONE
HERE REPRESENTING THAT IS
PRESENT.
I WOULD TURN THE TABLE OVER TO
HIM IF HE HAS ANY PREPARED
REMARKS.
SURE.
THAT'S PETITIONER WINSTON
CHESTER COME UP HERE.
YES YOU CAN.
WINSTON CHESTER WITH OXFORD.
AND FIRST I JUST WANTED TO SAY
THANKS TO THE STAFF FOR PUTTING
THIS REPORT TOGETHER IS REALLY
DETAILED, ESPECIALLY THE PARTS
ABOUT THE SHORTAGE OF CHILD
CARE AS PETITIONER THAT WAS
REALLY INFORMATIVE TO ME TO SEE
ALL THOSE STATISTICS BECAUSE WE
KNOW THAT THERE'S A SHORTAGE
BUT TO SEE IT LAID OUT WAS
REALLY HELPFUL.
SO THANK YOU.
AND JUST TO GIVE YOU GUYS A
LITTLE BACKGROUND WHY WE FILED
A PETITION OXFORD OWNS A COUPLE
OF BUILDINGS, A GREEN ROAD.
WE'VE BEEN APPROACHED BY BOTH
CHILD CARE AND PRIVATE SCHOOL
TENANTS THAT ARE INTERESTED IN
LEASING THE SPACE.
IT'S ZONED RESEARCH EVERYBODY
KNOWS THE SITUATION WITH THE
OFFICE SPACE THESE DAYS THERE'S
A LOT OF VACANCY.
WE'RE TRYING TO FIND NEW USES
FOR OFFICE SPACE WITH THE NEW
KIND OF WORK FROM HOME
SITUATION THAT'S GOING ON.
SO THIS FELT LIKE A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO REVISIT THE
ZONING OF THE AREA AND SEE IF
WE CAN PUT THIS SPACE TO BETTER
USE, YOU KNOW, YEAH.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE I CAN
ANSWER FOR YOU GUYS?
OK, GREAT THANKS ON THAT
QUESTION PLANNER SHEIK THANK
YOU.
SO SO AS THE PETITIONER
MENTIONED THIS WAS A TEXT
AMENDMENT APPLICATION TO ALLOW
CHILD CARE CENTERS AND PRIVATE
SCHOOLS AS PERMITTED USES IN
THE RESEARCH AND ONE IN ONE A
ZONING DISTRICT.
IN RESPONSE STAFF RECOMMENDS
ALTERING THE USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS FOR CHILD CARE CENTER
AND PERMITTING THIS USE R1 ALL
R TO A R TO BE R E AND O R
ALEXANIAN DISTRICTS AND
ALLOWING PRIVATE SCHOOL USES AS
A SEIYU OR SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE IN THE R E AND OR ZONING
DISTRICTS.
HAVE A SHORT PRESENTATION IF I
CAN FIGURE OUT THE TECHNOLOGY
WITH TWO MONITORS AND THE
COUNCIL CHAMBERS TECHNOLOGY
IS
NOT LOOKING
FOR
WHEN IN DOUBT
JUST ON PUBLIC OR SO AS MUCH.
OF COURSE I RECEIVED THIS
PETITION TO ALLOW IT IN THE R E
ALLOW BOTH OF THESE USES AN R E
AND ONE AND ONE A DISTRICT
CHILD CARE CENTERS ARE ALREADY
A PRIMARY USE THAT IS THEY DO
NOT REQUIRE A SPECIAL EXCEPT IN
USE IN IN ONE DISTRICT BEFORE
2019 CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ALLOWED
FOR CHILD CARE CENTERS AND
PRIVATE SCHOOLS AS AS HE USED
IN OUR ZONING DISTRICTS AS YOU
CAN SEE ON THE TABLE ON THE
SCREEN PRIVATE SCHOOLS WERE NOT
ALLOWED IN OR OUT SINCE
THOUSAND NINETEEN AND AS YOU
RECALL IN TWENTY NINETEEN THERE
WAS A REWORKING OF THE UPC
CHILD CARE CENTERS ARE NO
LONGER ALLOWED IN THE AREA
DISTRICT BUT ARE PERMITTED AS C
USE IN THE OUTFEST.
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS WOULD
RESTORE CHILD CARE CENTERS AND
PRIVATE SCHOOLS AS PERMITTED
USES IN THE ALREADY DISTRICT
CHILD CARE CENTERS WOULD BE
ALLOWED AS A PRIMARY TO USE AND
PRIVATE SCHOOLS AND THEN YOU
THE PERMISSIONS FOR CHILD CARE
CENTER AND PRIVATE SCHOOL USE
IT IN THE DISTRICT ARE NOT
PROPOSED TO CHANGE.
A SUMMARY OF THESE CHANGES IS
ON THE SCREEN SO TAKING A QUICK
STEP BACK IN PREPARATION FOR
THIS THAT GIVES YOU THE CONTEXT
AND PREPARATION FOR THIS.
WE LOOKED AT ALL OUR ZONING
DISTRICTS AND WHERE THESE USES
ARE PERMITTED AND NOT PERMITTED
AND THERE'S BEEN RECENT STUDIES
AND RESEARCH AND ACTUALLY A NEW
SPARK HAD SOLICITED A STUDY
WITHIN THE PAST COUPLE OF YEARS
ABOUT THE NEED FOR CHILD CARE
IN WASHTENAW AND LIVINGSTON
COUNTIES.
THOSE FINDINGS ARE ON THE
SCREEN ABOVE BUT THEY
IDENTIFIED A NUMBER OF ISSUES
AROUND AVAILABILITY, COST AND
WORK IN BUSINESS IMPACTS.
THE SUMMARY OF THAT REPORT IS
ALSO IN THE STAFF REPORT.
>> THE PROPOSED BACK TO THE THE
STAFF REPORT.
THE PROPOSED CHANGE WOULD ALLOW
CHILD CARE CENTERS AS A PRIMARY
USE IN THE ARE YOU DISTRICT AND
CHANGE THEM FROM AN SIU TO A
PRIMARY USE THE OIL DISTRICT.
THE PROPOSED CHANGES ALSO SEEK
TO ALIGN CHILD CARE CENTER AND
PRIVATE SCHOOL USES IN THE RTC
AND OAL DISTRICTS GIVEN THE
OVERALL PERMITTED LAND USES AND
LOCALIZATION OF THESE ZONING
DISTRICTS WITHIN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR, STAFF FURTHER
RECOMMEND CHANGING THE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS OF CHILD CARE CENTERS
TO REMOVE REFERENCES TO SIU
APPROVAL WHEN IN OUR ONE HOUR
TO AN HOUR TO BE DISTRICTS THIS
ADDITIONAL CHANGE SEEKS TO
ALIGN THE CHILD CARE USE AS A
PRIMARY USE AND ALL ZONING
DISTRICTS IN WHICH IT IS
ALLOWED.
IN OTHER WORDS, REMOVING THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE CONDITION
IN CERTAIN ZONING DISTRICTS
WHILE ALSO FACILITATING THE
DEVELOPMENT OF CHILD CARE
CENTERS IN THE CITY.
GIVEN THE SIGNIFICANT NEED FOR
MORE CHILD CARE IN THE REGION
AS NOTED IN THE CITED STUDY, IT
IS ALSO IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
WHEN THESE PROPOSED CHANGES DID
COME TO OVERSEE THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE STAFF DID
NOT PROPOSE CHANGING THE SEIU
TO PRIMARY USE IN THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
BUT STAFF UPON FURTHER RESEARCH
IS PUTTING FORTH THAT
SUGGESTION AS WELL WITHIN THE
STAFF REPORT AND FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION REMOVING
THE SEIU CATEGORY OF CHILD CARE
CENTERS IN THE HOUR ONE HOUR TO
AN HOUR TO BE DISTRICTS CARRIED
THE IMPLICATION THAT IF NO
PHYSICAL CHANGES TO THE
BUILDING OR SITE ARE PROPOSED A
SITE PLAN WOULD NO LONGER BE
REQUIRED FOR THIS USE IN THESE
DISTRICTS.
IN OTHER WORDS, AS IT STANDS
NOW IN THE HOUR, ONE HOUR TO AN
HOUR TO BE DISTRICTS SHOULD A
CHILD CARE CENTER BE PROPOSED
IN THOSE DISTRICTS EVEN IF
THERE WERE NO PHYSICAL CHANGES
NEEDED BECAUSE IT WOULD REQUIRE
AN SEIU, THERE WOULD BE A SITE
PLAN REQUIRED AND THEN THAT
WOULD COME BEFORE THE I PLAN
ALONG WITH SEIU WOULD COME
BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF PROPOSES CHANGES TO THE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR CHILD
CARE CENTERS IN THE HOUR ONE
HOUR TO AN ARE TO BE DISTRICTS
SPECIFIC SPECIFICALLY THE
STANDARD THAT THE PARCEL MUST
HAVE A MINIMUM OF SEVENTY FIVE
HUNDRED OR SEVEN THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OF LA AREA
WOULD BE MAINTAINED AS YOU CAN
SEE ON THE SCREEN AND LANGUAGE
WOULD BE ADDED REQUIRING THAT
ALL CHILD CARE CENTERS IN THE
SAME THOSE ZONING DISTRICTS BE
LICENSED BY THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN AND IN OTHER JUST
NOTE THE WITHIN THE ANN ARBOR
ZONING UDC THERE ARE THREE
CLASSIFICATIONS FOR CHILD CARE
FACILITIES.
THERE'S CHILD CARE CENTERS AND
THEN THERE'S TWO OTHER
DISTINCTIONS THAT ARE ALLOWED
IN OTHER ZONING DISTINCTIONS.
THOSE TWO OTHER DISTINCTIONS
FROM ONE TO SIX STUDENTS OR
CHILDREN AND SIX TO TWELVE
ALREADY HAVE THE PROVISION
REQUIRING THAT THEY BE LICENSED
BY THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
SO JUST UPDATING THAT LANGUAGE
AND REMOVING THE OCCUPANCY
REQUIREMENT BECAUSE THERE WOULD
NO LONGER BE A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE PERMIT REQUIRED
AS WAS PREVIOUSLY NOTED IN THIS
PROVISION
FOR REFERENCE HERE IS
A MAP THAT SHOWS THE AREAS IN
WHICH CHILD CARE CENTERS ARE
CURRENTLY PERMITTED.
YES, IT'S SMALL THE GREEN AREAS
ARE THE AREAS IN WHICH CHILD
CARE CENTERS ARE CURRENTLY
PERMITTED IN GENERAL WITHOUT A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION YEARS AND THE
RED AREAS ARE THE AREAS IN
WHICH THE CITY IN WHICH THEY
ARE PROPOSED BE PERMITTED AGAIN
AS A PERMITTED USE NOT A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS MOVING ON
TO THE PRIVATE SCHOOL PROVISION
OF THIS ORDINANCE REQUIRE STAFF
RECOMMENDS AGAINST ALLOWING
PRIVATE SCHOOLS IN THE ONE AND
ONE A DISTRICTS AS REQUESTED
AGAIN AND STAFF IS IS
RECOMMENDING ALLOWING THEM AS
SEIU IN THE R E AND L DISTRICTS
BUT NOT RECOMMENDING AND ONE IN
ONE EIGHT DISTRICTS.
>> INSTEAD WE SUGGEST RESTORING
PRIVATE SCHOOL USES TO THEIR
PREVIOUS THEIR PREVIOUS ZONING
DESIGNATIONS AS THEY WERE IN
2019 WITHOUT FURTHER EXPANSION.
PRIVATE SCHOOLS OFTEN HAVE
LARGE FOOTPRINTS AND EXTERNAL
USES THAT MAY NOT FIT WELL WITH
ANY ONE IN A AREAS AND OTHER
NEIGHBORING USES.
THESE DISTRICTS ARE LIMITED IN
SIZE AND ARE CRUCIAL FOR A
SPECIFIC LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES
THAT SUPPORTED DIVERSE LOCAL
ECONOMY PRESERVING AND ONE IN
ONE A AREAS FOR INDUSTRIAL
PURPOSES AND FOR SPACE FOR
CURRENT AND FUTURE TECHNOLOGIES
THAT MAY ONLY BE PERMITTED IN
THESE ZONES WHILE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS AND PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS
OF HIGHER LEARNING ARE ALLOWED
IN ALL DISTRICTS.
THIS IS BECAUSE THEY ARE
INDEPENDENT GOVERNMENT ENTITIES
NOT SUBJECT TO LOCAL ZONING
REGULATIONS.
SO IN OTHER WORDS YES PRIVATE
SCHOOL OR PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER
LEARNING ARE PERMITTED.
BUT IF YOU CAN THE UDC TABLES
THEY'RE PERMITTED IN ALL ZONING
DISTRICTS AS A DE FACTO
PERMISSION BECAUSE AS THEY ARE
SEPARATE ENTITIES THEY'RE NOT
SUBJECT TO ZONING CODE .
>> HERE IS A MAP FOR PRIVATE
SCHOOL DISTRICTS.
THIS MAP HAS THREE COLORS ON IT
GREEN ARE THE AREAS IN WHICH
THEY'RE CURRENTLY ALLOWED
EITHER AS A PRIMARY USE OR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE THE AREAS
IN RED ARE THE AREAS IN WHICH
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING THE ORELL
AND RED DISTRICTS WHICH WOULD
BE EXPANDED BASED IN FACT
RECOMMENDATION.
AND THE MAP ALSO SHOWS THAT ONE
IN ONE AREA IS JUST FOR
REFERENCE THAT ARE THE AREAS
THAT WERE SOLICITED BY THE
PETITIONER IN YELLOW SO THAT
SHOWS THE LIMITED AMOUNT
OF AREA THAT IS DESIGNATED
CURRENTLY IN CITY AND ONE AND
ONE A THAT STOP IS NOT
RECOMMENDING TO EXPAND PRIVATE
SCHOOLS INTO.
WITH THAT I WILL FINISH MY
PRESENTATION BUT HAPPY FOR ANY
QUESTIONS SAKE SORRY NOT QUITE
READY AND SO IN SUMMARY, STAFF
RECOMMENDS THAT THE AMENDMENT
TO THE DC TO ALTER THE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS OF AND PERMIT THE
CHILD CARE CENTER USE AND THE
R-1 ALL SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
ARE TO A TWO FAMILY DWELLING
ARE TOO BIG TO FAMILY DWELLING
IN STUDENT HOUSING R E RESEARCH
AND OAL OFFICE RESEARCH LIMITED
LIFE AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ALLOW
PRIVATE SCHOOL USES AS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION TO USE IN THE
R.E. RESEARCH AND OAAU OFFICE
RESEARCH LIMITED LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS BE
APPROVED BECAUSE THERE IS A
DEFICIT IN THE AVAILABILITY
OF CHILD CARE IN THE CITY VAN
ARBER THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
WOULD RESTORE CHILD CARE
CENTERS TO PRIVATE SCHOOLS AS
USES IN OUR DISTRICT AS CHAPTER
55 ALLOW PRIOR TO 2019 AND
ALLOWING THESE USES ACROSS THE
R.E. AND OAL DISTRICTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU WILL NOW GO TO OUR
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS MATTER
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE WHO
ARE PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR USE
THE RACE HAND FEATURE IN ZOOM
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL ONE EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND INNER
MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY THEIR NAME FOR ZOOME USERS
YOU'LL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT IS YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU ARE IN A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
MR. GORDON THANKS FISCHER WISCH
KEN GARBER AGAIN.
I'M VERY SYMPATHETIC WITH THE
NEED TO EXPAND CHILD CARE
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE YOU KNOW
WITHIN THE CITY.
I JUST HAVE I JUST HAVE A
QUESTION JUST KIND OF THE
OBVIOUS ONE IF WE MAKE THIS USE
A PRIMARY USE IN OUR ONE HER
TWO AND TO WHAT EXTENT OUR
NEIGHBORS NOTICED IF SOMEONE
BUYS A RESIDENTIAL CONVERTS IT
TO CHILD CARE AS LONG AS IT'S
SEVENTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
SQUARE FOOT LOT AND IT'S A
STATE LICENSED AND THEY JUST DO
IT OR WHO APPROVES IT AND ANY
OPPORTUNITY FOR NEIGHBORS TO
HAVE ANY INPUT IT'S JUST A
QUESTION I'M NOT OPPOSED TO THE
CHANGE BUT SOMETHING I WANT TO
BRING UP.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
HAVE WE ATTRACTED ANY ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS?
WE HAVE NOT OK SO HAVE ONLY CTM
AS REMOTE ATTENDED GIVEN THAT
THERE ARE NO ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS WOULD ANYONE ELSE
LIKE TO SPEAK WHO'S IN HOUSE?
>> BEFORE I CLOSED THE PUBLIC
HEARING SEEING NONE THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
I WILL READ THE MOTION AND THEN
WE'LL HAVE OUR COMMISSION
DISCUSSION.
THE MOTION READS THE ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
FOLLOWING AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT FIFTEEN
PRIMARY USE TABLES TO ALLOW
PUBLIC SCHOOL USES AS SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USES IN THE R E
RESEARCH BOTH R L OFFICE
RESEARCH LIMITED LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION FIVE POINT FIFTEEN
PRIMARY USE TABLES TO ALLOW
PRIVATE SCHOOL USES AS
PERMITTED USES AND THE ARE ONE
ALL SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING ARE
TO A TWO FAMILY DWELLING ARE TO
BE TWO FAMILY DWELLING AND
STUDENT HOUSING R E RESEARCH
AND O R L OFFICE RESEARCH LIGHT
EXCUSE ME LIMITED LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS TO ALTER THE
SPECIFICATIONS FOR CHILD CARE
CENTER USES MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION AND COMMISSIONER
MILLS WILL KICK US OFF GREAT.
THE FIRST THING IS I FEEL LIKE
THE LANGUAGE IN THE STAFF
REPORT IS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT.
THE ONES READ YEAH OK GREAT.
MAYBE NOT SO MUCH THE REPORT
BUT THE MOTION THERE THE MOTION
THE STAFF REPORT IS WHAT I
ANTICIPATED.
YEAH OK SO AND IT WAS JUST
YOU'RE I'M SURE THAT YOU'RE
READING WHAT WAS GIVEN TO YOU.
WE'RE TALKING PRIVATE SCHOOLS
FOR THE FIRST PART OF IT AND
CHILD CARE CENTERS FOR THE
SECOND.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
OK, SUPER JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE ALL KNOW OR VOTE
ON SO PROBABLY WHAT'S THE WORD
THAT'S CORRECT.
SOMETHING I SAID OK YEAH I READ
YOU READ THE RIGHT THING
RETENTIONIST YOUR READING
COMPREHENSION IS GOOD IT'S IT'S
A WEIRD SCRIPT.
>> YEAH OK SUPER WEIRD CORRECT
.
>> OK CAN CAN WOULD THE MOST AH
AND SECOND OR WOULD IT BE OK TO
WITHDRAW AND THEN I'LL REREAD
THE MOTION WITH THAT CHANGE IS
THAT OK.
IS THAT OK WITH THE TABLE.
SO THE SECOND ONE SECTION FIVE
POINT FIFTEEN PRIMARY USE TABLE
TO ALLOW CHILDCARE'S CHILD CARE
CENTERS AND ALSO MAYBE THIS WAS
JUST A NOT FREUDIAN SLIP BUT IN
THE FIRST ONE DOES IT SAY
PRIVATE SCHOOL?
DID IT SAY PUBLIC SCHOOLS?
IT SAID PRIVATE AND I WAS
WONDERING IF I SAID PUBLIC
BECAUSE YOU KNOW YOU GOT IT.
ANY OTHER CHANGES FOR THE
MOTION?
I THINK IS THIS OK DEPUTY
MANAGER KELLY SEEMS GOOD SO
FAR.
>> SORRY FOR THE MAYBE YOU
CORRECTED VERSION CAME AFTER
THAT WAS PULLED INTO THIS
REPORT.
>> I APOLOGIZE.
NO ONE IS TO BLAME.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HERE WE GO.
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE FOLLOWING
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
SECTION FIVE POINT FIFTEEN
PRIMARY USE TABLES TO ALLOW
PRIVATE SCHOOL USES AS SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USES IN THE R E
RESEARCH OR AND O R L OFFICE
RESEARCH LIMITED LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION FIVE POINT FIFTEEN
PRIMARY USE TABLES TO ALLOW
CHILD CARE CENTERS USES AS
PERMITTED USES IN THE R ONE.
ALL SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING ARE
TWO A TWO FAMILY DWELLING ARE
TO BE TWO FAMILY DWELLING AND
STUDENT HOUSING R E RESEARCH
AND O R L OFFICE RESEARCH
LIMITED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS AND SECTION FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS TO ALTER THE
SPECIFICATIONS FOR CHILD CARE
CENTER USES MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH NOW WE ARE
IN DISCUSSION BACK TO
COMMISSIONER MILLS I A REAL
QUESTION WHICH IS JUST FOR
CLARITY THAT AS MOVING TO A
PERMITTED USE WHAT IS THE
PROCESS IF SOMEONE PURCHASES A
PROPERTY IN ANY OF THESE
DISTRICTS AND WISHES TO TURN IT
INTO A CHILD CARE CENTER
SO AS
A PERMITTED USE THEY FIND AN
EXISTING SITE EXISTING BUILDING
AND YES, THEY CAN MOVE IN AND
OPEN UP THEIR BUSINESS IN THAT
EXACT IN THAT EXACT BUILDING.
BEP BUT IF THEY WOULD LIKE TO
DO MAKE ANY ADDITIONS TO IT
THOSE ADDITIONS BECAUSE THEY
ARE NO LONGER A SINGLE FAMILY
IT WILL BE A BUSINESS, NOT A
SINGLE FAMILY THAT WOULD NEED
SOME SORT OF CYCLING APPROVAL
FOR THAT A BUILDING ADDITION
DEPENDING ON THE SCOPE IT MIGHT
BE A FOUR PLANNING MANAGER
APPROVAL IT MIGHT BE FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
I DIDN'T MEAN THAT.
I MEANT MIGHT BE FOR A PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL AND THAT
DECISION WOULD INCLUDE TEARING
DOWN THE BUILDING AND BUILDING
A PURPOSE BUILT CHILD CARE
CENTER.
BUT IT WOULD MEAN AS A
PERMITTED USE THEY COULD MOVE
INTO THE EXISTING BUILDING AND
USE THAT EXISTING BUILDING
WHICH THE USE BUT ANY ADDITIONS
TO WOULD NEED TO GO THROUGH THE
SITE PLANNING PROCESS.
>> THANK YOU.
I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT A
COUPLE OF TIMES IN THE PAST
COUPLE OF YEARS THERE HAVE BEEN
PEOPLE PETITIONERS CALLING FOR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES IN FOR
CHILD CARE FACILITIES IN
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS AND
OFTEN THE QUESTIONS THERE ARE
QUESTIONS BY NEIGHBORS USUALLY
ABOUT PARKING AND MY SENSE AS
SOMEONE WHO HAS NOT ENTIRELY
RECENTLY BUT NOT TOO LONG AGO
FREQUENTED LOTS OF DAYCARES
THAT HAVING MORE CHILD CARE
FACILITIES IN MORE
NEIGHBORHOODS IS LESS TRAFFIC
BECAUSE THE PEOPLE IN THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS WILL USE THAT IF
THERE IS SPACE AVAILABLE.
AND THE PROBLEM IS RIGHT NOW AS
THE STAFF REPORT SO CLEARLY
LAYS OUT, THERE IS NOT THERE
ARE NOT ENOUGH SPACES IN
DAYCARES AND SO SOMETIMES YOU
HAVE TO SCHLEP YOUR KID HALFWAY
ACROSS TOWN JUST TO BE ABLE TO
GO TO WORK.
>> AND SO I AM SYMPATHETIC WITH
THE IDEA THAT SOME PEOPLE MIGHT
NOT LIKE KNOWING THAT THE
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING NEXT
DOOR MIGHT BE TURNED INTO A
CHILD CARE FACILITY AND THEY
DON'T GET ANY NOTICE.
ON THE OTHER HAND, I THINK
PARTICULARLY THE SIZE OF THE
BUILDINGS THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ARE UNLIKELY TO HAVE THAT
MANY STUDENTS AND AGAIN
ADDITIONAL SEATS IN THAT
NEIGHBOR A DIGITAL DAYCARE
SPOTS IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD WILL
LEAD TO LESS TRAFFIC BECAUSE
YOU JUST DON'T HAVE TO YOU IT
THERE WILL BE MORE NEIGHBORHOOD
PLACES.
>> SO THAT'S MY TWO CENTS I
THINK THIS IS AWESOME.
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT SUPPORT.
I LOVE SEEING THE MAP ABOUT
WHERE CHILD CARE IS CURRENTLY
ALLOWED AND HOW IT MAY BE
ALLOWED IN THE FUTURE.
I ALSO REALLY APPRECIATE THE
KIND OF THOUGHTFULNESS ABOUT
BECAUSE ABOUT WHAT WE DO
DISTRICTS THAT THERE ARE FEW WE
HAVE TONS OF LAND ZONED FOR HIM
AND SO I THINK BEING SLIGHTLY
MORE PROTECTED ESPECIALLY
OF USES THAT HAVE LARGE
FOOTPRINTS THERE MAKES A WHOLE
LOT SENSE.
>> SO I THINK THESE CHANGES ARE
EXCELLENT AND I APPRECIATE
STAFF THOUGHTFULNESS AND
PUTTING THE THIS REPORT
TOGEER.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
M.H. IF I CAN JUST JUMP RIGHT
IN WITH ONE ADDITIONAL POINT
CREATING A PARKING LOT ALSO A
TRIGGER SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
SO AGAIN IT WOULD REALLY BE
THEY ARE MOVING IN TO THE VERY
EXISTING SITE IF THIS PASSES
EXISTING SITE THEY COULD NOT
ANOTHER
TRIGGER OF SITE PLAN
REVIEW AND APPROVAL IS CREATING
A PARKING LOT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER NORTON, I HAVE A
QUESTION FOR YOU AS WELL.
I KNOW BECAUSE I WALK THROUGH
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND DETROIT
NEIGHBORHOOD THERE ARE TWO
CRUTCHING HOUSES I BELIEVE THAT
ARE THERE AND THEY'RE JUST
HOUSES THAT HAVE BEEN
CONVERTED.
THEY'RE NOT PARKING LOTS AND
I'M WONDERING IF YOU'VE EVER
HAD ANY COMPLAINTS FROM THE
NEIGHBORS ABOUT THOSE PLACES
BEING THERE, WHETHER THEY'VE
ACTUALLY CAUSED THE PROBLEMS
THAT FOLKS ARE RAISING OR MY
SENSE IS THERE JUST THERE THAT
THAT'S NOT BEEN A PROBLEM.
IS THAT CORRECT?
I WOULD SAY SO.
I'M NOT LOOKING AT ANY DATA BUT
TO MY KNOWLEDGE WE HAVE WE
DON'T HAVE ANY COMPLAINTS FROM
ANY EXISTING CHILD CARE
CENTERS.
THOSE TWO IN PARTICULAR AND ALL
OF THEM DO HAVE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES.
THEY WERE EACH INDIVIDUALLY
CONSIDERED SOME MEMBERS OF THE
COMMISSION MIGHT RECALL THERE
THERE HAVE BEEN OVER THE YEARS
MANY SIMILAR SITUATIONS
EXISTING HOME WITH OR WITHOUT
AN ADDITION IS PROPOSED TO BE
CONVERTED TO A CHILD CARE
CENTER AND THEY TYPICALLY
GENERATE A LOT OF COMMENTARY.
BUT THE PLANNING COMMISSION HAS
HISTORICALLY A PROVED WITH FEW
TO NO EXCEPTIONS.
SO CHANGE IS OFTEN A LITTLE BIT
ALARMING TO FOLKS AND THAT DOES
DRAW PEOPLE OUT CHILD CARE
CENTERS USUALLY WHERE ARE THEY
GOING TO PARK IS THE IS A VALID
QUESTION AND CONCERN BUT ALMOST
ALL OF THEM HAVE BEEN APPROVED
.
>> COUNCILMAN REDISH, I'M SO
HAPPY TO SEE THIS COME AND SO
QUICKLY BECAUSE I KNOW THAT
COUNCIL HAS BEEN HEARING A LOT
ABOUT THIS FOR UNDER A YEAR
ACTUALLY AND IT'S REALLY
IMPOSSIBLE TO UNDERSTATE THE
DIFFERENCE THIS WILL MAKE
BECAUSE A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
THAT REQUIRES A SITE PLAN
IMPOSES ON PEOPLE WHO DON'T
HAVE READY ACCESS TO THE KINDS
OF PROFESSIONALS WHO CAN HELP
YOU GET THROUGH THE SITE
PLANNING PROCESS.
>> IT IMPOSES ON THEM A LOT
OF COST AND A LOT OF TIME AND
JUST TO HAVE A HOUSE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT YOU TAKE CARE
OF KIDS IN I COULD DO THAT
WITHOUT A LICENSE AT ALL IF I
WANTED TO HAVE A PARCEL
OF CHILDREN.
SO THIS MAKES A LOT OF SENSE.
THERE'S THIS IS NOT A BIG DEAL.
IT'S NOT A BIG CHANGE FOR
PEOPLE.
IT'S A BIG CHANGE POSSIBLY IT
JUST OPENS THE POSSIBILITY OF A
BIG CHANGE FOR A CHILD CARE
ACCESSIBILITY.
AND I WAS LOOKING AT THE MAP
AND IT LOOKS LIKE REALLY MORE
THAN DOUBLES THE AREA WHERE YOU
COULD PUT A CHILD CARE FACILITY
AND IT'S PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT
TO MAKE THIS EASIER IN THE
AREAS OF OFFICE AND RESEARCH
BECAUSE THOSE ARE THE KINDS
OF PLACES YOU COULD DROP YOUR
KID OFF ON THE WAY TO WORK IF
YOU COMMUTE OR MAYBE YOU WORK
IN ANN ARBOR AND THEN YOU
DECIDE TO HAVE CHILD CARE FOR
YOUR CHILD IN ANN ARBOR BECAUSE
YOU YOU KNOW, YOU ENTER THE
CITY PAST ONE OF THESE POINTS.
AND SO THIS IS THIS COULD BE
VERY TRANSFORMATIVE BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, IF IF PEOPLE CAN'T FIND
ANYONE TO TAKE CARE OF THEIR
KID, THEY CANNOT TAKE A JOB.
SO THAT'S NOT WHAT WE WANT TO
SEE.
THAT'S NOT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
.
SO THANKS SO MUCH FOR BRINGING
THIS AND I HAVE NO QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU, GUESTS COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH COMMISSIONER ADAMS
NO WHAT I CALL A COUNCIL MEMBER
THIS IS POINTS AND JUST POINT
OUT THAT YOU KNOW, WE TALK A
LOT ABOUT STAFF RESOURCES AT
THIS TABLE AND HOW LIMITED THEY
ARE AT MORE OF THIS THAT WE CAN
DO THE BETTER IF WE'RE
APPROVING THESE THINGS.
THEY SHOULDN'T BE HERE AND WE
SHOULDN'T BE GIVING PEOPLE THE
IMPRESSION THAT AH THAT THIS IS
AN ITEM OF DISCUSSION THAT
WE'RE LIKELY TO GO ONE WAY OR
THE OTHER ON WHEN WE'RE
TYPICALLY PROVING SO IF WE'RE
GOING TO APPROVE IT AND WE
THINK IT'S GOOD AND
HISTORICALLY WE HAVE THOUGHT
IT'S GOOD THEN WE SHOULD WE
SHOULD TAKE IT OFF THE TABLE
AND I THINK AGAIN MORE OF THIS
IS GREAT AS MUCH AS WE CAN DO
IS GREAT.
THAT'S A ANYONE ELSE
.
>> I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS.
THE FIRST QUESTION IS WE ARE
DENYING THE BOTH OF THESE AND M
MAYBE I HAVE THREE QUESTIONS.
THAT'S THE FIRST I SAY WELL
FUNCTIONALLY YES, OK.
BUT THE WAY THAT THE MOTION IS
IS PREPARED THE WAY THAT THE
ORDINANCE IS PREPARED IT JUST
DOESN'T APPEAR SO WE ARE NOT
FORWARDING THAT WE WERE SO IT
DOESN'T APPEAR IN THE TABLE
ALREADY BECAUSE OF WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING CORRECT AND WHERE
THERE'S THAT DISTINCTION.
SO CHILD CARE CENTERS ARE
ALREADY A PERMITTED USE IN
THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT I'D STOP
RECOMMENDS NOT ALLOWING OR
IMPLY AND STAFF RECOMMENDS TO
NOT ALLOW PRIVATE SCHOOLS.
>> OK, SO THEN MY QUESTION IS
DOES THIS CREATE A NON
CONFORMING USE BECAUSE WE HAVE
A PRIVATE SCHOOL THAT'S ON
INDUSTRIAL THAT'S ZONED IN M
UNLESS I'M READING THE MAP
INCORRECTLY CENTRAL ACADEMY AT
TWENTY FOUR FIFTY NINE
INDUSTRIAL AND I WAS LOOKING AT
THE MAP ON THE WEBSITE AND IT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S UNDER I AM
FAIRLY CERTAIN THAT THAT IS A
CHARTER SCHOOL WHICH IS A
PUBLIC SCHOOL AND AND THIS IS
WHY YOU ALL ARE THE PAID STAFF
THE FIRST GRADE ALL RIGHT AND
THEN MY FINAL QUESTION IS YOU
ARE ADDING A PROVISION THAT ALL
OF THE CHILD CARE CENTERS THAT
ARE PERMITTED MUST BE APPROVED
BY THE STATE LIKE EXCUSE ME
MUST BE LICENSED BY THE STATE
WHICH WILL ALSO MEAN AN
APPROVAL BY THE STATE.
BUT I APPRECIATE THE
CORRECTION.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY EXEMPTIONS OR
CARVE OUTS FOR RELIGIOUS
INSTITUTIONS THAT DO NOT ARE
NOT REQUIRED BY THE STATE TO BE
LICENSED OR HOW DOES THAT GET
HANDLED?
IS THAT IS THAT A SPECIAL CASE,
A LEGAL PLACE?
IT'S IT IT'S NOT ANYTHING WE
NEED TO DEAL WITH HERE AT THE
TABLE.
>> I AM NOT FAMILIAR ENOUGH
WITH THE CHILD CARE REGULATIONS
TO KNOW IF RELIGIOUS
INSTITUTIONS ARE EXEMPT.
THEY ARE AND THEY THEY THERE
ARE FOUR THAT ARE CURRENTLY
EXEMPT FROM THE STATE LAW AND
THEY'RE LISTED IN THEIR
LICENSING GUIDELINES.
SO I BELIEVE A RELIGIOUS
INSTITUTION CAN APPLY TO BE
EXEMPT FROM THE STATE CODE BUT
IT WOULD MEAN THAT OUR
CODE WOULD NOT ALLOW THEM.
SO I WAS JUST WONDERING IF ANY
OF THAT WAS UNDER
CONSIDERATION.
IT MIGHT BE OUT OF SCOPE FOR
THIS CONVERSATION BUT HAVING
RUN A DAYCARE CENTER IN A
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION I A
LITTLE FAMILIAR WITH ALL
OF THIS.
>> I SUPPOSE WE CAN MAKE SURE
TO CHECK WITH OUR THE ATTORNEYS
OFFICE AND TO SEE I WILL JUST
SAY THAT SO THIS IS NOT A
FUNCTIONAL CHANGE FOR WELL I
GUESS IT IS A FUNCTIONAL
CHANGE.
IT WAS GOING TO SAY IT'S NOT
FOR OUR NONRESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS BUT WE CAN ADD THAT
LANGUAGE IF NECESSARY WHEN THIS
MOVES FORWARD COUNCIL I JUST
I'M NOT FAMILIAR ENOUGH WITH
THE STATE LICENSING SIDE.
>> THANK YOU.
THOSE WERE MY QUESTIONS IN
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS FROM
COMMISSIONERS SAYING NONE I
BELIEVE WILL MOVE TO A
ROLL-CALL VOTE.
>> GIVE ME JUST ONE MOMENT
.
OK, COMMISSIONER WISCH.
>> YES, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
>> COUNCILMAN REDISH YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS YES.
>> AND COMMISSIONER NORTON.
>> YES.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO IF WE COULD I
INVITE UH CHERAMIE.
>> OH YES.
YES.
YOUR RETURN AND THEN HE'LL
LEAVE AGAIN HE SAID SO I WILL
TAKE A MOMENT OUT OF TURN TO
LET ALL OF THE COMMISSION TABLE
KNOW THE MINUTES HAVE FOUR NINE
FOUR HAVE BEEN ATTACHED TO YOUR
PACKET AND WERE CIRCULATED BY
EMAIL AND AH SHOULD BE IN
PUBLIC FOR YOU NOW.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
VERY COOL.
YOU'RE ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
OFFENSE'S.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO GO AHEAD AND
INTRODUCE AN AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE RELATED OFFENSES SECTION
FIVE POINT TO SIX A PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO REVISE THE
STANDARDS FOR FENCES IN
RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
PROVAL AND WITH THAT WE WILL
MOVE ON TO STAFF PRESENTATION
WITH MR. LEO.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS PART OF A PACKAGE
OF AMENDMENTS THAT STAFF IS
PROPOSING THIS PRESENTATION AND
ONE STAFF REPORT DESCRIBES
AMENDMENTS TO REVISE THE
STANDARDS FOR FENCES IN
RESIDENTIAL AND NON RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS SECTION FIVE TWENTY
SIX POINT TWO IS PROPOSED TO BE
AMENDED AND REORGANIZED.
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS INCLUDE
APPLYING THE EXISTING
RESTRICTIONS ON SHARP EDGES AND
ELECTRIFIED FENCES TO
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS AS
WELL.
>> THEY'RE ALREADY IN EFFECT IN
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
>> WE DID ADD A LANGUAGE THAT
THAT DOES ALLOW THEM WHEN
SPECIFICALLY REQUIRED BY
ANOTHER CODE .
ONE OF OUR PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS MENTIONED THAT
I'M GOING TO GET THE I'M GOING
TO GET IT WRONG.
>> BUT SOME SOLAR INSTALLATIONS
REQUIRE I THINK BARBED WIRE
FENCING FOR SECURITY.
I WILL SAY THAT ALSO THAT WE
HAVE NOT HAD ANY
REAL ISSUES OR
PROBLEMS WITH ANY RESIDENTIAL
FENCES BEING
ELECTRIFIED OR
HAVING BARBED WIRE ON THEM.
BUT IN FAIRNESS WE ARE
PROPOSING TO HAVE THE SAME
LANGUAGE APPLY THROUGHOUT THE
CITY.
>> ANOTHER CHANGE IS ADDING A
GENERAL REQUIREMENT TO CLARIFY
THAT FENCES MAY BE LOCATED
ANYWHERE ON A LOT.
THIS IS NOT THIS IS ONLY
CHANGING WHAT APPEARS IN THE
CODE .
THIS IS ALREADY PERMITTED BUT
IT'S FOR IT IS CHANGED TO THE
TEXT FOR CLARITY.
WE ARE ALSO WE ARE PROPOSING AN
INCREASE IN THE MAXIMUM
CAPACITY IN THE SIDE YARD OF A
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT,
INCREASING IT FROM EIGHTY
PERCENT TO 100 PERCENT.
SO THIS WILL ALLOW SOLID FENCES
IN THE SIDE YARD THAT'S DEFINED
AS THE FACE OF THE HOUSE
BACKWARDS AND FINALLY WE ARE
DECREASING THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT
PERMITTED IN NONRESIDENT
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS IN THE
SITE IN REGARDS TO TWELVE FEET
CURRENTLY IT'S ALLOWED TO MATCH
THE HEIGHT LIMIT OF THE
DISTRICT AND OUR REORGANIZED
TALKS ABOUT COMBINING THE
RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL
STANDARDS TO GENERAL STANDARDS
AND THEN SEPARATING THE HEIGHT
AND OPACITY AND PROVIDING THEM
IN A TABLE FORMAT.
THERE'S ONE THING I DO NEED
POINT OUT THOUGH I BELIEVE WITH
STAFF WE BELIEVE THAT THE
LANGUAGE DOES NOT IMPACT
WROUGHT IRON FENCES WHICH CAN
HAVE WHICH BUT OUR LANGUAGE IS
NOT LIKE FOOLPROOF.
WE DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THE
LANGUAGE WOULD PROHIBIT WROUGHT
IRON FENCE WITH THEM DECORATIVE
FLEUR DE LI OR SOME SORT
OF KIND OF POINTY BUT BLUNT
THING.
>> I DON'T HAVE A PICTURE BUT I
THINK YOU CAN MAYBE IMAGINE
HOWEVER IF THE COMMISSION IS
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THE CURRENT
LANGUAGE PROPOSAL WHICH IS
FENCES SHALL NOT CONTAIN ANY
SHARP POINTED OR PROTRUDING
ELEMENTS IT CAN BE SLIGHTLY
AMENDED TO FOR EXAMPLE FENCES
SHALL NOT HAVE SHARP ELEMENTS
OTHERWISE WE ARE RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL OF THIS CHANGE TO
SECTION FIVE TWENTY SIX POINT
TWO.
>> OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH WITH
THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM I
WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR SIGN UP ON
THE PHONE OR RAISE YOUR HAND
FEATURE AND ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR
SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING IS NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY CALLS
BY THE LAST THREE DIGITS THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE AND YOU'LL HEAR ON
AUTOMATED RESPONSE WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE
ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA SO WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
.
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
OK, SEEING NON DO WE HAVE ANY
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS?
THERE'S STILL NO REMOTE.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
I'M GOING TO BE THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS AT THE
UNIVERSITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE IS PROPOSING TO ATTACH
DRAFT ORDINANCE AND GENERALLY
DESCRIBE AS CHANGING AND
REORGANIZING THE STANDARDS FOR
FENCES IN RESIDENTIAL AND
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS AS
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE POINT
TO SIX POINT TWO MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER YHA SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
DISCUSSION COMMISSIONER NORTON
.
I WOULD NOT HAVE PRESENTED TO
THIS UNTIL YOU POINTED IT OUT
LANDSCAPING FENCES THAT ARE
KIND OF WROUGHT IRON POINTY
FENCES.
AM I NOW ILLEGAL?
I KIND OF LIKE YOUR PROPOSED
SLIGHT REVISION TO SAY FENCES
SHALL NOT CONTAIN ANY SHARP
ELEMENTS SUCH AS BARBED OR
BARBED WIRES AND JUST STRIKE
THE WORDS POINTED OR PROTRUDING
BECAUSE IT ACTUALLY ADDS
CONFUSION.
>> I MEAN YOU'RE TRYING TO GET
AWAY FROM THINGS THAT ARE
DANGEROUS, RIGHT?
SHARP.
>> SO I GUESS I WOULD RECOMMEND
THAT MINOR TWEAK.
OK, GOT IT.
WOULD THAT COME IN THE FORM
OF A WALL ON THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY THOUGHTS
REGARDING CHANGING THAT
LANGUAGE FROM SHARP PROTRUDING
?
>> ANYBODY IN AGREEMENT?
YES, WE HAD SOME PROPOSED
LANGUAGE THAT WAS IT'S A
VARIATION ON THE THEME OF WHAT
PLANER DELIO SHARED WHICH IS TO
SAY FENCE'S SHALL NOT CONTAIN
ANY SHARP ELEMENTS BUT PERHAPS
TO GO ON TO SAY SUCH AS AND
THEN IDENTIFY THE SPECIFIC
ITEMS THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
AVOID.
>> YEAH, I THINK SO.
THAT'S GOOD TO INCLUDE.
>> YOU DON'T WANT TO HAVE
PEOPLE PUTTING THAT ON THEIR
FENCES.
SO I WOULD SAY SHARP SHARP
ELEMENTS I SEE POINTED OR
PROTRUDING WAS WAS BEING
MODIFIED NOT SHARP WOULD BE
HAPPY TO SHARE THE LANGUAGE
THAT MANAGER PROPOSED.
>> YES I I MEAN I I DON'T KNOW
THAT WE NEED TO SPEND HOURS
WORDSMITH IN THIS BUT I'M SURE
YEAH.
I MEAN I WOULD I GUESS I WOULD
ASK THE STAFF TO JUST TWEAK IT
SO THAT YOU'RE NOT SOMEHOW
LYING DECORATIVE WROUGHT IRON
FENCES THAT HAVE PROTRUDING
ELEMENTS.
>> YEAH GOT IT.
YES.
MR. ADAMS YOU COULD ALSO SAY
HAZARDOUS RIGHT BECAUSE YOU'VE
GOT ELECTRIFIED IN THERE ANY
HAZARDOUS ELEMENTS SUCH AS AND
THEN YOU'VE GOT A LIST AND THAT
LEAVES IT THERE'S A HAZARD THAT
HAS TO BE A JUDGE TO BE PRESENT
IN ORDER TO BE SUBJECT TO A
CITATION OR SOMETHING ELSE.
GOT TO THANK YOU.
IT'S LIKE A TRAP FENCE OR
SOMETHING LIKE SURE YEAH YEAH
YEAH I'M WALKING HOME ALONE.
>> OH YES COMMISSIONER.
JUST TO SAY THAT I'M IN FAVOR
OF THE REST OF THESE CHANGES I
THINK THEY DON'T MAKE SENSE.
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS REVIEW
COMMITTEE AND I DIDN'T EVEN
THINK ABOUT WHAT WHAT YOU
POINTED OUT.
>> SO OTHER THAN THAT JUST
TWEAKING IT TO CLARIFY THAT ONE
POINT I'M IN FAVOR OF THE REST
OF THE CHANGES BEING PROPOSED
GOT IT SOUNDS GOOD STAFF I
WOULD ASK YOU HOW WE SHOULD
KIND OF ADDRESS THIS SHOULD WE
APPROVE THIS WITH THE KIND
OF CAVEAT OR VOTE TOWARDS
APPROVING WITH THE CAVEAT THAT
WE SHOULD STAFF SHOULD TAKE
ANOTHER CRACK WORD SMITHING
WHETHER IT'S HAZARDOUS OR THAT
ELEMENT.
>> I MEAN WE'RE JUST MAKING A
RECOMMENDATION THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL APPROVE.
>> EXACTLY.
YEAH, I I THINK THE MOTION IS
PRESENTED SAYS AS PROPOSED IN
THE ATTACHED DRAFT ORDINANCE
THAT COULD BE STRUCK AND YOU
COULD SAY UH AS REFLECTED IN
THE DISCUSSION AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TABLE AND THEN MOVE
ON.
>> OK SO JUST UM MR. LEO, DOES
THAT WORK FOR YOU?
>> OK SO I THINK THE CHANGE MR.
CHAIR, FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MOTION WOULD BE UH
INSTEAD OF AS PROPOSED IN THE
ATTACHED DRAFT ORDINANCE, THAT
LANGUAGE WOULD BE CHANGED TO
SAY UM YOU KNOW, AT AS
DISCUSSED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AT ITS OCTOBER 1ST
MEETING OK, GOD AND ADJUSTED BY
STAFF AND MY STAFF GOT IT
UNDERSTOOD.
>> SO DOES THAT REQUIRE KIND
OF A FORMAL AMENDMENT AND A
FRIENDLY OK AUDIT?
>> DO I HAVE SOMEBODY TO
PROPOSE THAT AMENDMENT TO THE
MOTION THEY MAKE A FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT TO REVISE THE MOTION.
THANK YOU.
SAY AS DISCUSSED AT THE TABLE
AND ADJUSTED BY STAFF TO
REFLECT THE ISSUES RAISED, WE
RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
>> THANK YOU AND I HAVE A
SECOND COMMISSIONER MILLS.
SO WE NOW GO INTO DISCUSSION
OF THAT FRIENDLY AMENDMENT AND
DISCUSSION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO DO A VOICE VOTE TO
AMEND ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY
AY AY YI OPPOSED SEEING NONE.
THE FINALLY MOTION PASSES SO
I'M GOING TO READ NOW THE
OFFICIAL MOTION WHICH IS THAT
THE ANN CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE AMENDMENTS TO THE
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AS DISCUSSED
BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION AT
THE OCTOBER 1ST TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MEETING AND ADJUSTED BY
STAFF ACCORDINGLY AND GENERALLY
DESCRIBED AS CHANGING AND
REORGANIZING STANDARDS FOR
FENCES AND RESIDENTIAL AND
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE POINT
TO SIX POINT TWO.
WITH THAT I BELIEVE THAT WE
WILL GO TO A ROLL-CALL VOTE
MISKELLY
CERULLI YES VICE CHAIR
ONCE YES.
>> SECRETARY HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES
COMMISSIONER YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS YES.
>> COMMISSIONER NORTON YES.
THANK CARRIES GREAT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SECTION NINETY.
THIS IS REGULAR BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE A
PETITION AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED VELTMAN CODE RELATED TO
REIMBURSEMENTS AND REDUCTION
SECTION FIVE POINT TO EIGHT
POINT ONE.
>> AT THIS POINT IN TIME I'M
GOING TO RECUSE MYSELF AND TURN
IT OVER TO VICE CHAIR WHITE.
>> THANK YOU.
CHAIR LEE, I WILL INTRODUCE THE
PETITION AND AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE ,
RELATE IT TO REIMBURSEMENTS AND
REDUCTIONS SECTION FIVE POINT
TO EIGHT POINT ONE I PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO SECTION FIVE POINT
TO EIGHT POINT ONE POINT E
REIMBURSEMENTS AND REDUCTIONS
TO REVISE THE REIMBURSEMENT
FORMULA FOR DEVELOPMENTS THAT
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DWELLING UNITS, STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL.
I'M NOT SEEING A PETITIONER
WHICH MEANS IT MUST HAVE BEEN
STAFF INITIATED AND SO I WILL
TURN IT OVER TO PLAN OR DUILIO
AND PLANNER SHAKE.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS IS THE SECOND OF OUR GROUP
OF AMENDMENTS THIS ONE THAT I
WILL PRESENT IS TO REVISE THE
REIMBURSEMENT FORMULA FOR
DEVELOPMENTS THAT PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
UNITS SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY
EIGHT ONE E IS PROPOSED TO BE
AMENDED TO OFFER THE FEE
REIMBURSEMENT WHEN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS PROVIDED IN
PROPORTION TO THE PERCENTAGE
PROVIDED CURRENTLY 50 PERCENT
HALF OF THE APPLICATION FEES
ARE REIMBURSED WHEN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS PROVIDED PERIOD.
THIS IS REGARDLESS OF THE
PERCENTAGE THAT IS INCLUDED IN
THE DEVELOPMENT.
THE PROPOSED FORMULA
IS TOTAL
FEES.
THE PROPOSED FORMULA IS
MATCHING THE PERCENTAGE THAT IS
PROPOSED.
A FORMULA IS IS OFFERED THAT IS
TOTAL FEES TIMES THE PERCENTAGE
OF FLOOR AREA DEDICATED TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS HALVED
THIS AMENDMENT WILL HAVE NO
EFFECT TO ENTIRELY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
THEY WILL GET THE FIFTY PERCENT
NO FEES REDUCED IF THEY ARE
HUNDRED PERCENT AFFORDABLE BUT
IT WILL PRORATE REIMBURSEMENT
FOR MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS OR
DEVELOPMENTS THAT PROVIDE SOME
AFFORDABLE DWELLING UNITS AMONG
THE MARKET RATE.
WE'VE PROVIDED SOME EXAMPLES
OF HOW THAT FORMULA APPLIES IN
DIFFERENT SCENARIOS TO THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
AND THAT WAS ATTACHED IN THE
PACKET AND ON THE SCREEN HERE
THE YELLOW HIGHLIGHTING
HIGHLIGHTS THE THE PARAGRAPH
OF THAT SECTION THAT IS
PROPOSED TO BE AMENDED
PARAGRAPH ONE IS NOT PROPOSED
TO BE AMENDED AND THE SCREEN
REFLECTS THE FINAL NOT TRACK
CHANGES.
TRACK CHANGES ARE AVAILABLE
ATTACHED TO THE STAFF REPORT MY
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS
BUT STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL.
>> THANK YOU PLAN ODILIA.
WE WILL NOW MOVE TO A PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON THE PHONE
OR USE THE RACE HAND FEATURE
ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR RESUME USERS YOU
WILL HILAR YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE YOU
ARE IN A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
HELLO MR. GARBER.
>> THE HECK I'M HERE.
JUST CURIOUS HOW MUCH OF AN
INCENTIVE THIS IS TO PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WHAT WHAT ARE THESE FEES AMOUNT
TO TYPICALLY FOR A PROJECT SO
THAT I'M JUST WONDERING HOW
CONSEQUENTIAL THIS IS TO BEGIN
WITH.
SO IT'S JUST A QUESTION.
SO THANKS TO INTERESTED YOU
KNOW.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
HAVE WE ATTRACTED ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS SEEING NONE.
>> I AM CLOSING THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WILL READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION THE ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER FIFTY
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE AS
PROPOSED IN THE ATTACHED DRAFT
ORDINANCE AND GENERALLY
DESCRIBED AS REVISING THE
REIMBURSEMENT FORMULA FOR
DEVELOPMENTS THAT PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROVIDED IN
SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY EIGHT
POINT ONE POINT EIGHT MOVE BY A
SECRETARY HAMMERSCHMIDT AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER MILLS, THANKS.
>> I THINK THIS MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE AND I WONDER IF
SOMEBODY CAN SHARE WHAT WAS IN
THE OUR C REPORT IN TERMS
OF THE FEE STRUCTURE LIKE BOTH
THE SCHEDULE AND THE COUPLE
OF EXAMPLES.
>> I THINK IT WAS REALLY I HAD
NO IDEA WHAT OUR FEE STRUCTURE
IS AND THERE'S A TABLE AND IT
GIVES A COUPLE OF RECENT
EXAMPLES OF WHAT THE FEES CAN
BE AND YEAH, IT'S SO IT'S
LINKED THAT STAFF REPORT IS TO
OR C IS LINKED HERE BUT IT'S
YEAH.
>> SIGNIFICANT YEAH.
IF YOU GIVE ME JUST ONE MOMENT
I CAN BRING IT UP SUPER.
>> THANK YOU.
I HAVE IT IN MY NOTES WHICH ARE
IN MY PHONE I CAN YEAH WE JUST
WANT TO SEE IF WE CAN PUT IT ON
THE SCREEN SO THAT MR. GARBER
CAN SEE IT.
>> YEAH PLAN WELL PLANNER SHAKE
IS BRINGING IT UP SO WE CHARGE
SORRY CARNAP CAN UPRATE SAY
PLANS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
CHARGE A BASE FEE AND THEN THEN
BY SQUARE BY A THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET FOR A PROJECT THAT'S 40000
SQUARE FOOT BUILDING, 40000
SQUARE FOOT BUILDING, NEW
BUILDING.
IT WOULD REQUIRE A TOTAL
OF TWELVE THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
AND FORTY DOLLARS IN FEES AND
IF IT WAS ENTIRELY AFFORDABLE
THE CURRENT POLICY IS THAT IT
WOULD GET HALF BACK.
THEY WOULD BE REIMBURSED SIX
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED TWENTY
AND THE PROPOSED POLICY IS ALSO
THEY'LL GET HALF BACK FIFTY
PERCENT THE SAME BUT A PROJECT
ANOTHER SORT OF DOWNTOWN
PROJECT DOWNTOWN PROJECT THAT
MIGHT BE ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
ONE UNIT APARTMENT BUILDING IN
A STORY TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT BUILDING
INCLUDING ONE FLOOR
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
UNITS.
IT WOULD NORMALLY REQUIRE
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED SEVENTY FIVE DOLLARS IN
FEES.
>> THE CURRENT POLICY THEY
WOULD BE REIMBURSED HALF
OF THAT TWELVE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED CHANGE BUT A PROPOSED
POLICY IS THEY'LL BE REIMBURSED
TWO PERCENT OF THE FEES FOR
PROVIDING FOUR PERCENT OF THE
FLOOR AREA DEDICATED TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR JUST FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS TO BE
REIMBURSED AND OUR FINAL
EXAMPLE WOULD BE A SITE PLAN
FOR FIFTEEN NEW BUILDINGS
INCLUDING A HOTEL, APARTMENT
BUILDINGS AND RESTAURANTS AND
PARKING STRUCTURES PROPOSING
OVER TWO MILLION SQUARE FEET
OF NEW FLOOR AREA INCLUDING TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY NINE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
UNITS THAT WOULD NORMALLY
REQUIRE ALMOST ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY THOUSAND IN FEES.
THE CURRENT POLICY IS THEY'LL
GET HALF BACK ABOUT ALMOST
SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS BACK.
BUT THE PROPOSED POLICY THEY'LL
BE REIMBURSED THREE PERCENT
OF THE TOTAL FEES FOR PROVIDING
SIX PERCENT OF THE FLOOR AREA
DEDICATED FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
SO IN THESE EXAMPLES IT'S THE
SOME PROJECTS WOULD HAVE NO
CHANGE THE ONES THAT ARE
ENTIRELY AFFORDABLE BUT
PROJECTS THAT HAVE AFFORDABLE
MIXED IN WITH LARGER PROJECTS.
THE PERCENTAGES ARE SWITCHING
FROM FIFTY PERCENT
REIMBURSEMENT TO SINGLE DIGIT
REIMBURSEMENT.
COMMISSIONER NORTON, I'M JUST
CURIOUS WHAT WERE THESE MEANT
TO BE PRETTY TYPICAL EXAMPLES
ARE THEY KIND OF EXTREME
EXAMPLES THEY THEY ARE BASED ON
SORT OF REAL LIFE EXAMPLES THAT
YOU'VE HAD COME THROUGH THAT
WOULD THAT THAT HAVE HAD COME
THROUGH.
THEY YOU KNOW, EACH PROJECT IS
VERY DIFFERENT BUT WE TEND TO
SEE EITHER ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
AFFORDABLE PROJECTS OR PROJECTS
THAT HAVE A SMALL PERCENTAGE
OF AFFORDABLE UNITS AMONG AMONG
THE MIX.
>> THIS IS THE TOTAL SIZE
OF THE PROJECT.
YEAH, WELL THE THIRD EXAMPLE
THAT'S EXTREMELY LARGE ACTUALLY
THAT IS NOT TYPICAL.
THE MIDDLE EXAMPLE 20 STOREY
HIGH RISE THAT IS BECOMING
BECOMING MORE USUAL MOST OF THE
DOWNTOWN PROJECTS ARE THE THIRD
EXAMPLE THOUGH THAT IS QUITE
THAT IS UNUSUAL THE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
YEAH, SO I THINK TWO THINGS IN
RESPONSE TO MR GARBER'S
COMMENTS AND IN RESPONSE TO
THIS QUESTION OF TOPICALITY, WE
HAVE YET TO SEE WHAT THE EFFECT
OF OUR RELAXING OF THE
CONSTRAINTS WE HAD PUT ON
DOWNTOWN DENSITY.
>> WE DON'T KNOW YET WHAT
EFFECT THAT WILL HAVE ON PEOPLE
PROVIDING UNITS BECAUSE THIS IS
PROVIDING UNITS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
IT'S NOT PAYMENTS IN LIEU SO
THIS COULD BE MORE THE SECOND
OR THE TWELFTH THOUSAND DOLLAR
EXAMPLE COULD BE MORE TYPICAL.
>> THE OTHER ONE IS
REDEVELOPING MORE THAN A BLOCK
.
>> I MEAN THAT'S A HUGE
POSSIBLE RIGHT NOW STILL
HYPOTHETICAL TO SEE ONE
PROPOSAL BUT IT WENT DOWN FROM
ALMOST 60000 TO 3500.
>> YOU ASKED ABOUT THE
INCENTIVES, MR. GARBER.
I THINK THAT CLEARLY I WOULD BE
HAPPY TO PROVIDE AND IF YOU
KNOW AN AFFORDABLE UNIT IF I
COULD SAVE 60000 SO IT'S A MISS
INCENTIVE, RIGHT?
>> I MEAN WE'RE TRYING TO ALIGN
WE'RE TRYING TO ACTUALLY MAKE
IT SO THAT THE CITY REALIZES
MORE BENEFITS FOR GIVING UP
OF LARGE LARGE FEES WHICH YOU
SOMETIMES WHEN WE ARE LOOKING
TO BE ABLE TO INCREASE STAFF WE
GAUGE OUT ON WHETHER AN
INCREASED STAFF MEMBER WOULD
PRODUCE MORE FEES BECAUSE IT
PRODUCES MORE PRODUCTIVITY.
>> WELL, THESE WOULD BE BIG
FEES TO BE YOU FOREGOING WHEN
WE ARE LOOKING EVERYWHERE WE
CAN WITHOUT EXPANDING OUR
BUDGET TO INCREASE CITY STAFF
SO ANYONE ELSE
?
COMMISSIONER NORTON, JUST TO
SAY AGAIN WE TALKED ABOUT THIS
AT THE REVIEW COMMITTEE THESE
CHANGES MAKE SENSE TO ME.
I'M FULLY SUPPORTIVE OF THEM.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD IDEA TO
MOVE THIS DIRECTION.
THANK YOU.
>> WITH THAT, CAN WE MOVE TO A
ROLL-CALL VOTE?
CERTAINLY.
COMMISSIONER NORTON?
YES, COMMISSIONER ADAMS YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS'.
YES.
COUNCILMAN
DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH.
THAT CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
>> YES.
>> IS CHAIRLADY COMING BACK FOR
THAT CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
THE NEXT ONE.
>> IS CHAIRLADY COMING BACK FOR
OK
THANKS EVERYONE FOR JUST
CLARIFICATION PURPOSES I WAS
JUST EVEN THOUGH THAT THAT
APPLIED TO ALL PROPERTIES
RIGHT.
>> I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT IF THERE WAS EVEN A
GLIMPSE OF CONFLICT I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT BRINGING IT LOUD
AND CLEAR TO THE GROUP.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO SECTION NINE THAT'S E AS
AN ELEPHANT AMENDMENT TO UNIFY
DEVELOPMENT CO RELATE TO PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE FRANCHISE
UTILITIES.
THIS IS A PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO
THE SECTION FIVE POINT THREE
SEVEN POINT TO SPECIFIC TERMS.
THE REVISED DEFINITION
OF PUBLIC UTILITY AND ADD THE
TERM AND DEFINITION OF PRIVATE
OR FRANCHISE UTILITY STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL WITH
THAT WILL GO TO DEL.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS IS THE THIRD AND FINAL
STEP INITIATED AMENDMENT FOR
THE EVENING.
THIS ONE IS ABOUT THE
DEFINITION OF PUBLIC UTILITY
REVISING IT AND ADDING A
DEFINITION FOR PRIVATE OR
FRANCHISE UTILITY ROUTINE UDC
WORK REVEALED THIS INTERESTING
SITUATION THE DEFINITION FOR
PUBLIC UTILITY APPEARS TO BE
CONFLATED WITH PRIVATE
UTILITIES AND NO DEFINITION IS
PROVIDED FOR PRIVATE OR
FRANCHISE UTILITY.
>> THIS IS NOT A TERM THAT IS
OFTEN USED IN THE UDC BUT FOR
POSTERITY'S SAKE ACCURACY'S
SAKE WE ARE PROPOSING TO
CORRECT THE DEFINITION
OF PUBLIC UTILITY AND ADD A
DEFINITION FOR PRIVATE UTILITY
AND WE ARE PROPOSING TO MATCH
THESE DEFINITIONS WITH THE
PUBLIC SERVICES STANDARD
SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSISTENCY
ACROSS THE BOARD.
SO WHERE WE ARE ALWAYS TALKING
ABOUT THE SAME THING WHEN WE
ARE REFERRING TO PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE UTILITIES SO OUR
PROPOSED DEFINITION TO READ IN
FINAL FORM IS ON THE SCREEN AND
WHEN IT WOULD BE A PUBLIC
UTILITY WOULD BE A CITY OWNED,
OPERATED AND MAINTAINED UTILITY
AND THEIR APPEARANCES INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO ASSISTANCE
FOR SANITARY SEWER WATER,
STORMWATER COMMUNICATION
CONDUIT AND CABLE STREETLIGHTS
AND TRAFFIC CONTROL AND A
PRIVATE UTILITY WOULD BE
UTILITIES NOT OWNED BY THE CITY
INCLUDING SO FORTH PRIVATELY
OWNED NATURAL GAS AND ELECTRIC
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS AND
TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION CABLE
AND CONDUIT SYSTEMS AND ALL
APARTMENTS WHATEVER THEIR TO.
AGAIN, THIS IS NOT REALLY A BIG
DEAL.
THIS IS MUCH MORE OF A
TECHNICAL AMENDMENT BUT
WHENEVER CHANGING THE UDC YOU
CAN'T JUST DO IT.
ELLIE BUT WE ARE PROPOSING TO
SORT OF TIGHTEN IT UP AND MAKE
IT CORRECT.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WITH THAT WE WILL GO TO PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON THE SIDE AND
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS AND TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
ON THE PHONE OR USE A RAISED
HAND FEATURE ON ZOOM IN FOR
PHONE CALL PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AN ENTER
MEANING EIGHTY NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE HOURS
THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S RETURN SPEAKING PLEASE
ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA SO WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AND FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS AGAIN
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> I'M GOING FOR THE RECORD FOR
ONE NIGHT ONE PERSON BUT YEAH,
I WANT TO THANK STAFF FOR
BRINGING THIS UP.
IT'S A PARADOX THAT THE
DEFINITION OF PUBLIC UTILITY IS
PRIVATE UTILITY AND SO IT MAKES
SENSE TO FIX.
I THINK THE ORIGIN OF THAT IS
THE FACT THAT YOU KNOW, IN THE
LANGUAGE OF A CENTURY AGO AND
THESE UTILS UTILITY SPRANG UP
UTILITY THAT SERVE THE PUBLIC
WHETHER IT BE PRIVATE OR PUBLIC
WAS ALL ABOUT AUTOMATICALLY
CALLED A PUBLIC UTILITY.
BUT IT'S INTERESTING THAT I
KNOW IT'S AN OPEN ENDED
DEFINITION BUT IT DOESN'T
INCLUDE ELECTRIC UTILITY THERE
AND I THINK WE HAVE SOMETHING
ON THE BALLOT IN NOVEMBER TO
APPROVE A CITY OWNED ELECTRIC
UTILITY, A PUBLIC UTILITY BY
THE NEW DEFINITION AND THERE'S
A BIG GRASSROOTS EFFORT TO DO
AN EVEN BIGGER ONE COULD TAKE
OVER OUR EXISTING PUBLIC
PRIVATE UTILITY DTG ENERGY.
SO THIS IS A TIMELY AMENDMENT,
NOT A BIG DEAL.
BUT I WONDER WHY ELECTRIC
UTILITY WASN'T INCLUDED IN THE
DEFINITION.
BUT AGAIN, IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
BE BECAUSE IT'S OPEN ENDED AND
I URGE YOU TO APPROVE THIS.
THANK YOU.
I'M SEEING NOBODY ELSE MOVING
TO REMOTE PARTICIPANTS' OK, GOT
IT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS THAT THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS TO THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE PROPOSED IN THE ATTACHED
DRAFT ORDINANCE AND GENERALLY
DESCRIBED AS REVISING THE
DEFINITION OF PUBLIC UTILITY
AND ADDING A DEFINITION FOR
PRIVATE OR FRANCHISE UTILITY AS
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE POINT
THREE SEVEN POINT TO MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISHWARE IN
DISCUSSION ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION?
>> OH COMMISSIONER MILLS SORRY
.
I'M ALSO CHIMING IN A LOT HERE
>> I THINK THAT THIS IS REALLY
.
GOOD AND SMART AND I MAKES IT A
>> I THINK THAT THIS IS REALLY
LOT CLEARER THE QUESTION THAT I
GOOD AND SMART AND I MAKES IT A
HAVE IS WITHIN THE UDC THERE
LOT CLEARER THE QUESTION THAT I
ARE NINE REFERENCES TO PUBLIC
HAVE IS WITHIN THE UDC THERE
UTILITY AND I WONDER IF WE SOME
ARE NINE REFERENCES TO PUBLIC
OF THEM CLEARLY APPLY NOT JUST
UTILITY AND I WONDER IF WE SOME
TO WHAT ARE WOULD FALL UNDER
OF THEM CLEARLY APPLY NOT JUST
THE WATER UTILITIES OR WHAT ARE
TO WHAT ARE WOULD FALL UNDER
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
THE WATER UTILITIES OR WHAT ARE
>> WHAT WOULD COME UNDER OUR
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
NEW DEFINITION OF PUBLIC
>> WHAT WOULD COME UNDER OUR
UTILITY.
NEW DEFINITION OF PUBLIC
BUT THEY ALSO INCLUDE EASEMENTS
UTILITY.
FOR THINGS THAT I THINK WOULD
BUT THEY ALSO INCLUDE EASEMENTS
PROBABLY FALL UNDER THE PRIVATE
FOR THINGS THAT I THINK WOULD
FRANCHISE UTILITY.
PROBABLY FALL UNDER THE PRIVATE
>> THERE'S 20 OTHER REFERENCES
FRANCHISE UTILITY.
TO UTILITY THAT ARE THAT I
>> THERE'S 20 OTHER REFERENCES
THINK ARE VAGUE THAT WOULD THEN
TO UTILITY THAT ARE THAT I
COVER BOTH OF THEM AND SO I
THINK ARE VAGUE THAT WOULD THEN
WOULD THINK THAT WE WOULD
COVER BOTH OF THEM AND SO I
PROBABLY BY INTRODUCING A NEW
WOULD THINK THAT WE WOULD
DEFINITION DON'T WANT SOME
PROBABLY BY INTRODUCING A NEW
DON'T WANT THOSE PRIVATE
DEFINITION DON'T WANT SOME
UTILITIES TO DATE HAVE NOT BEEN
DON'T WANT THOSE PRIVATE
REFERENCED AT ALL IN THE UDC TO
UTILITIES TO DATE HAVE NOT BEEN
FALL INTO A OH I'M AT MY TIME
REFERENCED AT ALL IN THE UDC TO
UH I TALK TOO MUCH BUT TO FALL
FALL INTO A OH I'M AT MY TIME
INTO LIKE UM FOR THERE TO BE
UH I TALK TOO MUCH BUT TO FALL
AMBIGUITY IN THOSE NINE
INTO LIKE UM FOR THERE TO BE
REFERENCES SO I DON'T KNOW THAT
AMBIGUITY IN THOSE NINE
THAT NEEDS TO BE CLEANED UP NOW
REFERENCES SO I DON'T KNOW THAT
BUT MAYBE I MAYBE WHEN THIS IS
THAT NEEDS TO BE CLEANED UP NOW
FORWARDED THOSE THOSE SPACES
BUT MAYBE I MAYBE WHEN THIS IS
WITHIN THE UDC THAT EITHER WE
FORWARDED THOSE THOSE SPACES
DROP PUBLIC ENTIRELY AND JUST
WITHIN THE UDC THAT EITHER WE
GO TO UTILITY OR SAY PUBLIC OR
DROP PUBLIC ENTIRELY AND JUST
PRIVATE UTILITY.
GO TO UTILITY OR SAY PUBLIC OR
>> HOW ARE YOU PROPOSING AN
PRIVATE UTILITY.
AMENDMENT TO THE MOTION THAT
>> HOW ARE YOU PROPOSING AN
FURTHERS DIRECTION TO ENSURE
AMENDMENT TO THE MOTION THAT
THAT REFERENCES ARE ARE EITHER
FURTHERS DIRECTION TO ENSURE
VALIDATED OR FURTHER AMENDMENTS
THAT REFERENCES ARE ARE EITHER
ARE PROPOSED TO COUNCIL?
VALIDATED OR FURTHER AMENDMENTS
>> THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT I WAS
ARE PROPOSED TO COUNCIL?
TRYING TO SAY.
>> THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT I WAS
SO THAT IS A UM A AMMEND THAT I
TRYING TO SAY.
WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE A MOTION
SO THAT IS A UM A AMMEND THAT I
OK, GOT IT.
WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE A MOTION
>> DO WE HAVE A SECOND
OK, GOT IT.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT SO
>> DO WE HAVE A SECOND
NOW WE'RE IN DISCUSSION TO
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT SO
AMEND THE EXISTING MOTION TO
NOW WE'RE IN DISCUSSION TO
STATE THAT THERE SHOULD BE
AMEND THE EXISTING MOTION TO
CLARIFICATION OF REFERENCES
STATE THAT THERE SHOULD BE
THROUGHOUT THE UDC TO ENSURE
CLARIFICATION OF REFERENCES
COMPATIBILITY AND CONSISTENCY
THROUGHOUT THE UDC TO ENSURE
DISCUSSION YOU TO DRAG OUT THE
COMPATIBILITY AND CONSISTENCY
MEETING.
DISCUSSION YOU TO DRAG OUT THE
BUT IT IS OUR PRIVATE FRANCHISE
MEETING.
UTILITIES COVERED IT ALL IN THE
BUT IT IS OUR PRIVATE FRANCHISE
ZONING CODE ARE HOW ARE THEY
UTILITIES COVERED IT ALL IN THE
AFFECTED BY THIS CHANGE?
ZONING CODE ARE HOW ARE THEY
THEY ARE NOT REGULATED BUT THEY
AFFECTED BY THIS CHANGE?
ARE MENTIONED SOMETIMES I
THEY ARE NOT REGULATED BUT THEY
PROBABLY SHOULDN'T JUST TRY TO
ARE MENTIONED SOMETIMES I
GET THERE NOT WE DO NOT
PROBABLY SHOULDN'T JUST TRY TO
REGULATE THEM BUT SOMETIMES I
GET THERE NOT WE DO NOT
THINK THEY MENTIONED FOR
REGULATE THEM BUT SOMETIMES I
EXAMPLE IN OUR REQUIRED SITE
THINK THEY MENTIONED FOR
PLAN INFORMATION IT TALKS ABOUT
EXAMPLE IN OUR REQUIRED SITE
SHOWING PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
PLAN INFORMATION IT TALKS ABOUT
UTILITIES EXISTING ON A SITE.
SHOWING PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
THEY'RE NOT REGULATED THOUGH
UTILITIES EXISTING ON A SITE.
BUT THERE ARE REFERENCES IN THE
THEY'RE NOT REGULATED THOUGH
DOCUMENT ABOUT THEIR EXISTENCE
BUT THERE ARE REFERENCES IN THE
AND MAYBE WORKING AROUND THEM
DOCUMENT ABOUT THEIR EXISTENCE
OR NOT.
AND MAYBE WORKING AROUND THEM
>> SO THIS IS AS MUCH PROVIDING
OR NOT.
CLARITY FOR ANCILLARY WORK THAT
>> SO THIS IS AS MUCH PROVIDING
MIGHT REFERENCE THEM AND THEN
CLARITY FOR ANCILLARY WORK THAT
YOUR AMENDMENT JUST SO I'M
MIGHT REFERENCE THEM AND THEN
FOLLOWING THIS TO ASK THAT THE
YOUR AMENDMENT JUST SO I'M
STAFF GO BACK THROUGH THE
FOLLOWING THIS TO ASK THAT THE
CODE AND MAKE SURE THAT ALL THE
STAFF GO BACK THROUGH THE
REFERENCES TO UTILITIES MAKE
CODE AND MAKE SURE THAT ALL THE
SENSE IN LIGHT OF THESE
REFERENCES TO UTILITIES MAKE
MODIFICATIONS.
SENSE IN LIGHT OF THESE
>> YEAH, AND MOST OF THEM ARE
MODIFICATIONS.
ABOUT PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS.
>> YEAH, AND MOST OF THEM ARE
SO THAT APPLIES NOW TO BOTH
ABOUT PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS.
PUBLIC UTILITY AND PRIVATE AND
SO THAT APPLIES NOW TO BOTH
PRIVATE UTILITIES EASEMENTS.
PUBLIC UTILITY AND PRIVATE AND
>> OK, I GOT IT.
PRIVATE UTILITIES EASEMENTS.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> OK, I GOT IT.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO I'M JUST GOING TO READ THAT
ALL RIGHT.
PARTICULAR REFERENCE OH LET'S
SO I'M JUST GOING TO READ THAT
SEE AMENDMENTS TO THE CHAPTER
PARTICULAR REFERENCE OH LET'S
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
SEE AMENDMENTS TO THE CHAPTER
CODE AS PROPOSED IN THE
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
ATTACHED DRAFT ORDINANCE
CODE AS PROPOSED IN THE
GENERALLY DESCRIBED AS REVISING
ATTACHED DRAFT ORDINANCE
THE DEFINITION OF PUBLIC
GENERALLY DESCRIBED AS REVISING
UTILITY AND ADDING A DEFINITION
THE DEFINITION OF PUBLIC
FOR PRIVATE OR FRANCHISE
UTILITY AND ADDING A DEFINITION
UTILITY IS PROVIDED IN SECTION
FOR PRIVATE OR FRANCHISE
FIVE POINT THREE POINT THREE
UTILITY IS PROVIDED IN SECTION
SEVEN POINT TWO AND INCLUDING A
FIVE POINT THREE POINT THREE
REVIEW STAFF REVIEW
SEVEN POINT TWO AND INCLUDING A
OF REFERENCES THROUGHOUT THE
REVIEW STAFF REVIEW
UDC TO ENSURE CONSISTENT.
OF REFERENCES THROUGHOUT THE
>> DOES THAT SOUND APPROPRIATE
UDC TO ENSURE CONSISTENT.
?
>> DOES THAT SOUND APPROPRIATE
>> OK, PERFECT.
?
AND WITH THAT MANY OTHER
>> OK, PERFECT.
DISCUSSIONS JUST TO BEAT A
AND WITH THAT MANY OTHER
DEAD HORSE.
DISCUSSIONS JUST TO BEAT A
SO THAT MEANS WHEN THEY COME
DEAD HORSE.
FORWARD TO THE CITY COUNCIL
SO THAT MEANS WHEN THEY COME
THEY MIGHT ALSO IDENTIFY ALL
FORWARD TO THE CITY COUNCIL
THE PLACES IN THE CODE WHERE
THEY MIGHT ALSO IDENTIFY ALL
PRIVATE UTILITY NEEDS TO BE
THE PLACES IN THE CODE WHERE
ADDED FOR EXAMPLE OR SOMETHING
PRIVATE UTILITY NEEDS TO BE
HOWEVER YOU THINK APPROPRIATE.
ADDED FOR EXAMPLE OR SOMETHING
YES, TO ENSURE CONSISTENCY
HOWEVER YOU THINK APPROPRIATE.
THROUGHOUT
.
>> SO OK WITH THAT SO WE'RE
GOING TO DO A VOICE VOICE VOTE
ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE CURRENT
MOTION AGAIN IT'S THE ADDITION
OF AT THE VERY END OF IT
INCLUDING A STAFF REVIEW
OF REFERENCES THROUGHOUT UDC TO
ENSURE CONSISTENCY.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY
ANY OPPOSED TO SEEING NONE.
THAT AMENDMENT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MOTION PASSES.
>> WE'RE NOW BACK TO THE
ORIGINAL MOTION AS AMENDED ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
MR. CHAIR FISHER WHO SECONDED
THE AMENDMENT THAT WAS
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THANK YOU.
YEP.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE WILL NOW GO TO A
ROLL CALL VOTE OF THE AMENDED
MOTION.
>> UH, SKELLEY NATCHER ON THE
MOTION AS AMENDED COMMISSIONER
NORTON YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COUNCILMAN BRITISH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ROYCE.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
YES.
THAT CARRIES GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SECTION TEN WHICH IS OTHER
BUSINESS.
>> THERE ARE NONE.
SO WE ARE GOING TO MOVE INTO
THE FINAL PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS IF WE HAVE ANY AT
THIS POINT TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HAND
FEATURE ON THE ZOOM AND PHONE
ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
WE WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OR BY NAME ON
ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA SO WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> OK, MOVING ON SEEING NONE
ANY REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
.
>> OH OK.
BOB FRANCIS WOULD BE REVETT OK
WITH THAT I JUST GIVE IT A TWO
MORE SECONDS BUT NOBODY'S ON
THE CALL CLEARLY NOBODY OK OK
YEAH OK ATTENDED GUEST OK I
GOTCHA.
>> ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I'LL
CLOSE THE LAST PUBLIC COMMENT
AND WE'RE GOING TO GO INTO
COMMISSION OPPOSED BUSINESS ANY
COMMISSIONERS WANT TO PROPOSE
SOME BUSINESS?
>> THE ONLY THING THAT I WANTED
TO TALK ABOUT WAS ACTUALLY
RESPONDING TO MR. GARBER'S
COMMENT REGARDING TIFF'S.
ONE OF THE INTERESTING THINGS
THAT THE FOLKS AT THE PLANNING
CONFERENCE DID REFERENCE IS YOU
ARE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
THERE IS AN ISSUE WITH IF
THERE'S EVEN A SINGLE
DEPARTMENT OR SINGLE CONDO, IT
COULD BE KIND OF USED TO
TRIGGER THAT TIFF.
BUT AT THE COUNTY LEVEL OR AT
THE BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY CAN EXERCISE CERTAIN
LEVELS OF OK, WELL YOU'RE
CLEARLY LOOKING TO SUBVERT IT.
SO I THINK YOU ARE RIGHT THAT
WE SHOULD BE MAKING SURE THAT
THAT'S NOT THE CASE RIGHT.
THAT THEY'RE SUBVERTING US.
THE OTHER THING THAT THE FOLKS
PRESENTING AT THE CONFERENCE
DID NOTE IS THAT TIFF'S ARE
GENERALLY IT IS ABOUT IF THESE
PROJECTS WOULDN'T HAPPEN BUT
FOR THIS ASSISTANCE ON THAT
THEY WOULDN'T BE FINANCIAL
FEASIBLE.
>> NOW THE OTHER THING IS THAT
IT IS A TAXPAYER SUBSIDY OF A
CURRENT VALUATION OF FUTURE
TAXES THAT HAVEN'T NECESSARILY
BEEN GENERATED.
RIGHT.
IF THIS PROJECT DOESN'T HAPPEN,
WE DON'T GET THAT BENEFIT.
SO IT'S NOT NECESSARILY LIKE A
TAX SUBSIDY LIKE AN ABATEMENT
OR SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES
BUT IT'S INTENDED TO BE AN
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TOOL TO
SET.
SO JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT
THAT WAS OBJECTIVELY WAS
PRESENTED TO US AT THE
CONFERENCE.
SO I DID WANT TO KIND OF RAISE
THAT POINT AS WELL.
AND SO COMMISSIONER ELSE I
WASN'T GOING TO RAISE BUSINESS
BUT SINCE YOU ALREADY RAISED
IT, IT'S MORE TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT OUR ROLE IS IN THIS
BECAUSE TO MY KNOWLEDGE I DON'T
REMEMBER EVEN THOUGH I KNOW
THAT WE'VE HAD PROJECTS THAT
IT'S BEEN DISCUSSED WOULD SEEK
ON FIELD TO FUNDING OR
SOMETHING TO THAT EFFECT.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT OUR ROLE
IS AND SO IF WE ARE SUPPOSED TO
BE PLAYING A ROLE IN REVIEWING
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE REAL
HELPFUL FOR US TO KNOW IN THE
FUTURE.
>> BROWNFIELD PLANS ARE SENT TO
CITY COUNCIL SIMILAR TO PAYMENT
IN LIEU OF TAX AGREEMENTS AND
THEN THEY WOULD BE FORWARDED ON
TO THE COUNTY YOU WOULD BE IF
THEY'RE APPROVED OR EVEN IF
THEY'RE NOT YOU WOULD BE MADE
AWARE OF IT AS PART OF THE
PETITION THAT IT IS ASSOCIATED
WITH BROWNFIELD AND ANY DETAILS
TO BE PROVIDED TO YOU.
BUT THE APPROVAL FOR
BROWNFIELDS DOES NOT REST WITH
THIS COMMISSION OR
RECOMMENDATION FROM US ON NOT
TO MY KNOWLEDGE IT DOESN'T GO
THROUGH TO TYPICAL RECOMMENDING
SEQUENCE.
>> IT WOULD GO STRAIGHT TO CITY
COUNCIL IN FIRST INSTANCE AND
THEN IF APPROVED WOULD MOVE TO
THE COUNTY.
>> GOTCHA.
THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
MY UNDERSTANDING ALSO IS THAT
IF THE PETITIONER OR WHOEVER IS
SEEKING THE TIF IS LOOKING FOR
A STATE LEVEL NONPOINT APPEAL
EXEMPTION ON CERTAIN SPECIFIC
TYPES OF TAXES YOU WANT TO
CAPTURE A SEPARATION ON
PRINCIPLE THEY WOULD ACTUALLY
HAVE TO GET ALSO APPROVED BY
THE STATE BUT YEAH FOR FOR THE
PURPOSES THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR,
ITS CITY COUNCIL AND THEN THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY BROWNFIELD
GROUP.
SO JUST WANTED TO PROVIDE THAT
LEVEL OF CLARIFICATION ON BASIS
SO ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER
PROPOSED BUSINESS AT THIS TIME
SEEING NONE WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
TO THE LAST ITEM WHICH IS
ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER.
>> OH DID YOU WANT THE MINUTE?
OH YES.
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS NOT THAT WAS POSTPONED
OH YES.
TABLE TABLE OK.
THAT WAS NOT THAT WAS POSTPONED
>> YES.
TABLE TABLE OK.
>> IS IT POSSIBLE TO BRING THAT
>> YES.
BACK AT THIS TIME?
>> IS IT POSSIBLE TO BRING THAT
I THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE YES IT
BACK AT THIS TIME?
WAS TABLED SO YOU WERE JUST
I THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE YES IT
ASKED TO RECONSIDER SHOOT AFTER
WAS TABLED SO YOU WERE JUST
THAT?
ASKED TO RECONSIDER SHOOT AFTER
I DON'T I HAVE TO HAVE YOU GUYS
THAT?
HAD A CHANCE TO REVIEW IT?
I DON'T I HAVE TO HAVE YOU GUYS
THAT'S THE QUESTION I IT WAS
HAD A CHANCE TO REVIEW IT?
EMAILED TO US DURING THE
THAT'S THE QUESTION I IT WAS
MEETING.
EMAILED TO US DURING THE
OK, IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
MEETING.
ACTUALLY JUST TO PROVE IT IN
OK, IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
CONJUNCTION WITH THE NEXT
ACTUALLY JUST TO PROVE IT IN
MEETING I WOULD FEEL MORE
CONJUNCTION WITH THE NEXT
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
MEETING I WOULD FEEL MORE
SO JUST GIVES US A LITTLE BIT
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
TIME TO REVIEW IT.
SO JUST GIVES US A LITTLE BIT
>> SO THERE WAS ONE ITEM ON THE
TIME TO REVIEW IT.
AGENDA.
>> SO THERE WAS ONE ITEM ON THE
IT WAS VERY SHORT BUT WE CAN
AGENDA.
IT'S OK SHOULD NOT BE VERY
IT WAS VERY SHORT BUT WE CAN
LENGTHY.
IT'S OK SHOULD NOT BE VERY
>> OK, 30 SECONDS.
LENGTHY.
YEAH I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
>> OK, 30 SECONDS.
THAT I GET MY EYE ON CELSO PULL
YEAH I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
IT UP ON SCREEN.
THAT I GET MY EYE ON CELSO PULL
>> THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL.
IT UP ON SCREEN.
>> YES.
>> THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
>> YES.
GOT IT
.
MM
>> YES YEP.
JUST
YEAH OK IF YOU'D LIKE I
CAN WALK THROUGH IT WITH THE
COMMISSION BRIEFLY IT MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT I JUST FOUND ONE
ERROR UM PLANNING COMMISSION
OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES I
REPORTED IT PIRACY NOT
COMMISSIONER.
>> WELL I DON'T REMEMBER DO YOU
DIDN'T DO IT.
>> I THINK IT'S PROBABLY YOU
ALWAYS DID IT MAYBE I DON'T
KNOW BUT I'M LIKE NO I'M PRETTY
SURE I DID IT CONFUSING THE
SARUS YES.
IT'S BASICALLY GOING TO PROVE
IT AS AMENDED WITH COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT CATCH.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
I THINK IT'S OK IF WE CAN MAKE
THAT UP WITH THAT I WILL
ACTUALLY REOPEN THEN THE WHICH
PART OF THE SECTION WAS THAT
AGENDA.
NO SECTION FOUR WHICH THE
MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING
MAY I HAVE NOW A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE
SEPTEMBER FOURTH TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR AS AMENDED COMMISSIONER
NORTON MOVE TO APPROVE AS
CORRECTED OK SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I ANY OPPOSED SEEING NONE
THE MOTION PASSES WITH THAT WE
WILL ACTUALLY GO TO THE FINAL
ITEM WHICH IS ADJOURNMENT MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER NORTON SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WAITZ ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY I AND HE OPPOSED
ADJOURNMENT COMPLETED.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU